You're seeing kind of everyone I think
looked at okay, what else can benefit?
>> If we didn't have this boom in tech, we
would be looking at a much worse
situation.
>> The geopolitical just not factored into
anything right now.
>> To maintain the optimism, we need to
continue to see [music] earnings coming
through. The stock market's been
remarkably strong and I think it
continues to do very well.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Annmarie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, crude in Shanghai, the
White House at a run failing to break
the deadlock as one [music] key senator
is opening the door to Kevin Walsh's
confirmation. That action's capital
reeling once again from an attempted
attack on US officials. We start this
morning with a very warm welcome back to
Lisa and Annmarie in the room [music] on
Saturday evening and I think we're all
pleased to see you safe and well. Yeah,
well right now we're looking at an
evening that was torpedoed and I think
it's such a shame that we didn't have an
evening that is done every single year
for many decades. I will say that the
president came out with a sentiment that
I thought was a nice [music] one, which
was that he hopes that this happens
again in 30 days because ultimately he
wants to keep saying that one crazy
person isn't going to torpedo the way we
conduct our society. I think that
everybody loves the sentiment. [music] I
don't know that everyone has a financial
or emotional will to do it again, but
there is this uh hope that it isn't
going to wreck something [music] that's
become a tradition.
>> Well, during the chaos and confusion of
whether or not the dinner was going to
proceed, I spoke to a security official
from the White House who said, "The
president is adamant. He wants to come
back out." Obviously, he couldn't.
Potentially, [music] we'll see that in
30 days. Obviously, security's going to
be front and center here. On one hand,
the perimeter did work. The shooter,
even though we didn't know it in the
moment, the shooter did not make it to
the ballroom. Did not make it to that
floor. But, the shooter was staying at
the hotel. Why [music] wasn't the
shooter's bags checked? Why wasn't there
more security done on the outside
perimeter, not just right before you go
into [music] the ballroom?
>> A lot of questions we need to answer.
We'll catch you with Talia Kandall a
little bit later in the program. Also
need to look forward to this. For
financial market participants, the focus
overwhelmingly on central bank decisions
this week. Federal Reserve decision on
Wednesday
>> [music]
>> and earnings from big tech through the
week. And those big earnings all around
Wednesday, Thursday, the majority of
which land on Thursday afternoon. Okay,
just putting this all together. 44% of
the S&P 500 market cap reports this
week. If you think about the trillions
of dollars that report with Amazon as
well as
as well as Alphabet, Microsoft, and Meta
all reporting on Wednesday and then
Thursday you've got Apple. All of this
coming together at a time where this
market has rocketed higher despite some
of the concerns about the oil market on
the hopes and dreams of AI. A key
question for me is how will market
respond to increases in capital
expenditure that do seem existential and
frankly are all the more necessary as
some of the component parts get more
expensive.
>> comes to the oil market overnight,
Goldman Sachs upgraded [music] their
fourth quarter forecast for Brent crude
to $90 a barrel. It was $80 a barrel
because right now this morning, even
though you're seeing some carrots in the
likes of Axios, maybe there's potential
for trade reform in the US opening. At
the moment, it's not. It's still closed.
>> Hey, that's the real change. [music] Not
the 80 to 90. The change from when the
war started. Goldman were looking for
something $30 lower for the fourth
quarter and now you're looking at 90.
That's the reality of high for longer
and you see that I think in longer dated
prices in the oil curve as well. Bram, I
know you're in the same place as me,
focused [music] on that. Just not the
front month but the futures curve but
the later months making new highs in the
last week.
>> Yeah, $86.60 [music]
in Brent crude for the the December
contract. This is the key point. What is
the [music] longer term trajectory for
oil prices? Helima Croft of RBC had a
great point also saying one concern in
physical commodity markets [music] is
that prices in the near term are not
high enough to cause demand destruction.
So you're losing that kind of cyclical
response to the lack [music] of supply
that would normally uh, damper as some
of the uh, the lack that we're going to
see be seeing later this year. Futures
right now negative by 0.1% on the S&P
500. Another encouraging story from
Axios struck off pretty quickly. Axios
seem to be the carrot every Monday
morning and then some Iranian news
agency [music] becomes a stick later on.
>> Yeah, and Mohammad Gholibaf over on
Twitter was talking about the supply
cards and demand [music] card. This
caught my attention because basically it
was a threat. Said the Strait of Hormuz
is partly played right now, but BEM, Bab
el-Mandeb Strait, unplayed, [music]
pipelines unplayed. Basically saying the
key point of our leverage is the Strait
of Hormuz,
>> [music]
>> but we have other cards we could throw
down.
>> We've got a big 60 minutes coming up.
We'll catch up with Lori Calvasina of
RBC with stocks facing [music] a pivotal
week ahead. Norman Roule of CSIS on
reports Iran is coming to the table and
Sonu Desai of Franklin Templeton as
Kevin Warsh clears a major hurdle to be
named the next Fed chair. We begin this
hour with stocks holding their record
highs ahead of a critical week on Wall
Street. Lori Calvasina of RBC writing
the US is a global safety trade in the
context of the war and seems likely to
continue benefiting as long as concerns
about the war's duration remain
elevated. Lori joins us now for more.
Lori, good morning. Good morning.
>> This is an important question. How war
dependent is this tech rally?
So, you know, what we've said is that
once the clouds clear, if and when they
do, we wouldn't be surprised to see
Europe make a move, right? That seems
more like the recovery trade if the US
is the safety trade. However, I did a
survey of my analysts, um, in early
April. So, we did it after the ceasefire
essentially started a few a few days
after that, conducted it for about a
week, week and a half. And what we found
was that my European equity analysts
don't see a lot of value in their own
market. Um, and and and, you know, it's
something that we've sensed frankly
talking with European investors as long
back as December of last year and it's
just this idea that you've had this nice
run there. Um, so I do sort of question
how long a rebound trade could last and
what we said at the end of the day, if
you look at it from the growth versus as
sleeve and growth value in the US tends
to mimic US versus non-US. What we have
seen is that the earning story is simply
there for the AI trade, for the Mag 7,
for the growth trade. And whatever
residual damage we have coming out of
this conflict in Iran, even if we dial
down the geopolitical hostilities, get
the straight open, you know, when we
hear the energy community talk about how
long it's going to take to rebuild
things, all the damage that's going to
be done, I don't really see that hitting
the earnings of the AI and the tech
trade that much. I do see it hitting
things like materials. I see it hitting
things like industrial I see it hitting
things like consumer discretionary and
staples. That is the broadening trade,
right? So, I see
that headwind, even if we dial down the
hostilities, there for quite some time
for that part of the market.
>> suggesting the exuberance in chips right
now is justified? It's rational. Look, I
I'm I I I try to be the calm voice of
reason at both tops and bottoms. And,
you know, we certainly look at semis
revisions. I've talked about this a lot
in meetings. They are at peak-like
levels. That always makes me nervous. I
tend to be a little bit more of a
contrarian by nature, but I have to
admit that when I go back and look at
the history of semis upward revisions,
they can stay stuck at elevated levels
for quite some time. So, I'm watching
that chart very closely to see if we get
a hint of deterioration, and we're just
not really seeing it right now.
>> What do you need to see when it comes to
earnings, given the fact that we're
going to get the gut check from some of
these big tech companies to continue
with this positive safe trade in a way
for the US tech companies?
>> So, one of the things that I've noticed
on the data, and Bloomberg Intelligence
does a great job of tracking the Mag 7
versus the rest of the market. We
highlight this data all the time in our
meetings, but if you look at 2027
earnings expectations, you're actually
seeing a little bit of acceleration in
the growth rate for the Mag 7 versus
2026. And that's something that's just
popped up over the last, I would say,
month or two in the data. If you look at
the rest of the market, it's still
showing, you know, some strength, but
we're just really not seeing the rest of
the market able to overtake that Mag 7
cohort. And so, we're actually seeing
the Mag 7 advantage versus the rest of
the market expand in 2027. So, we're
looking at the 2026 numbers, obviously.
It is probably a little too early to
have a real handle on 2027, but at least
what we're seeing in terms of the data
so far, it is still really pushing that
tech MAG 7 secular growth story and
showing some strength there, and I think
that is ultimately what's buoying the
market.
>> Your colleague had a great note, Helima
Croft, to over at RBC, your company,
talking about this sort of reaction
function in markets that usually, when
there is some sort of shortage in an
asset, you see prices go up, and that
some of the uh forward uh messaging
coming from the administration has
suppressed where forward prices
otherwise would be. So, you don't have
that kind of correctional mechanism. Are
you getting more concerned that there is
going to be an inflationary uh
ramification from this that could
curtail some of this enthusiasm because
there's discussion about fiscal and
because the strength hasn't enabled
really that demand destruction.
>> So, when we think about inflation and we
think about how we model out earnings,
what we do see is that inflation can
often goose your revenue number, and I
know that sounds a little bit perverse,
but that's what we've seen historically
in the modeling. Where inflation is
really a problem if you're looking at
sort of market levels and that kind of
thing is on the P/E multiple. And so, we
do our 12-month forward target, we do a
monthly update on that. Um we have seen
our valuation earnings model. We've
input some new assumptions that are
trying to bring in kind of a more owners
inflation environment, and it's taken
some of the heat out of that model, but
I'm still coming up with 7759 if I use
consensus earnings, haircut them by 5%,
and then I put in for my market multiple
a 3.3% inflation number for the first
quarter of next year, 4 and 1/2 10-year
yields, and no cuts from the Fed. And I
you know, and that model was signaling
well over 8,000 before, so it's a hot
model, but I can still get there with
the math if the earnings hold up, even
if I pull the multiple down.
>> Lori, you noted that one company said,
"Absent the uncertainty in economic
conditions related to the the Iran
conflict, we would have raised our
full-year guidance." Yeah. Convenient
excuse, the Iran conflict for some
companies? So, you know, I know that's
come up a little bit on some of the
software companies. Um and you know,
sort of my take on that is whenever we
have sort of troubled industries, um
they will often sort of blame the macro.
Um so, I think that was one discussion
we were having with people last week. Um
I did notice a number of companies and
look, we had a we didn't have nearly as
many as we're having this week, but we
had a lot this week. We did the best we
could to sort of read through
everything. And we found a number of
companies also maintaining guidance. Um
and I think what we have happening here,
right, is we've got this really stiff
headwind from the Middle East situation.
It could continue to get stiffer. But
because of hedges, because of
inventories, because, you know, things
have have not really hit yet, right?
Companies still are sort of selling this
message that they can manage through,
right? That may end at some point, but
there are buffers in place. At the same
time, you've also got these really
strong tailwinds in some respects
running into these headwinds. And so
far, the tailwinds are ending up being a
little bit stronger than the headwinds.
That balance may change, um but right
now it it feels like the market is
acting pretty rationally.
>> A final question. For someone who's
maybe taken 12 months off and taken a
long vacation, good for you if you've
done that, by the way. And you had to
frame for them what's happening in this
equity market, would you say one or two?
One, we've rallied aggressively off a
low from only two or three weeks ago, or
two, we've done nothing since October.
What would you tell them? I think that
we have chopped around, to be honest. I
mean, I I think that we have broken out
to new highs in the S&P this year. And
the week that that was really getting
started, I was on the road seeing
clients, and they were just taken aback.
That was just sort of a state of
disbelief. I wouldn't say it was
bearish, but I do think there was a
sense of confusion, right? We talked a
lot about these US non-US issues, but I
think the reality is that the market is
actually acting pretty maturely, is
acting pretty healthily. Um you know, I
think I last time I came on the show, I
think I said something like take a deep
breath. Um and and I've been sort of
saying that message, take it one day at
a time. And I will say, when I've talked
to some of my faster money clients, you
know, kind of the hedge fund crowd, I
was impressed back during March that
they really weren't doing a lot, whereas
maybe 10 years ago in my career, they
would have been trading the heck out of
the short-term downside, but they had
their hedges on. They were waiting to
see what happened. The long-only's
weren't doing much. That's a very
different maturity level than what I saw
10 years ago in my job.
>> You fancy that 12-month vacation? I
would love it.
>> Right. Never can have a CNNC. Lori,
thank you.
You want a year off?
>> I would
Look, I think they Please, petition away
because I'm right there behind you. I
love that people are telling us take a
breath, take a deep breath. You've got
Jim Zelter, take a walk.
Essentially, touch grass. So, you know,
I think that the the world the stars are
aligning, John. I think that's what
we're seeing.
>> a great example of the fatigue setting
in. For the last 2 months, we've talked
about Monday morning starting on Sunday
evenings. That stopped this weekend.
I didn't sense a buzz of people
anticipating the open Sunday evening at
all in quite the same way. There's a
real fatigue that's clicked in with this
story. The story is still important, but
there's a real fatigue that's clicked in
in this market.
>> Not only that, I think that absolutely
you're correct, but to add to that, to
build on it, not only did you see oil
prices tick up in futures, but so did so
did stock futures, right? So, did equity
futures around the world. So, people
seem to be shrugging it off because
ultimately they weren't trading in the
same kind of tight correlation.
>> Crude this morning up 2% just short of
108 on Brent crude. WTI at 9640. With an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg Brief. Vanya Quinn has more.
Hey, Vanya. Hey, good morning, John. A
31-year-old man will be arraigned today
over Saturday night's shooting at the
White House Correspondents Dinner. The
acting Attorney General says the suspect
was probably targeting Trump
administration [music] officials, but
his the exact motive is not yet clear.
Iran is offering the new US a new
proposal for reopening the Strait of
Hormuz and ending the war. Axios is
reporting the offer postpones [music]
nuclear negotiations to a later stage.
President Trump is expected to hold a
meeting with top security [music] and
foreign policy officials later today.
Senator Tom Tillis is ready to advance
Kevin Warsh's nomination as the next
Federal Reserve Chair. Tillis says the
Justice Department's decision to end a
criminal investigation into current
Chair Jerome Powell removes a threat to
the Central Bank's independence.
That is your [music] Bloomberg brief,
John.
>> Vonnie, thank you very much. Opening the
door
for confirmation, [music] but have we
opened the door for Fed Chair Jay Powell
to go to the exit? That's a slightly
different question. Well, that's what I
want to know. So, obviously we're going
to have a new Fed Chair likely May 15th.
Does this mean Jay Powell views this now
as a time to step aside, no longer needs
his governor seat? Maybe we'll find out
this week.
>> We'll have that conversation later this
hour. Up next on the program, an
attempted shooting
>> [music]
>> in Washington, D.C.
Mr. President, do you know if you were
the target of the gunman? I don't know.
It sounded to me, I read a manifesto.
Says [music] he's
radicalized. We live in a crazy world.
Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Taylor Kendall, live from New York City
this morning. Good [music] morning.
>> [music]
>> Equity futures pulling back from
all-time highs. We're down just a tenth
of 1% on the S&P 500 following four
consecutive [music] weekly gains on the
S&P and the Nasdaq. Up by a tenth of 1%
following a record 18-day [music]
winning streak for the semis going into
a major reporting week on Wednesday.
Some of the big spenders, the big
customers of those chip companies.
>> the key question to me, is how much are
we going to see some of the large tech
players continue to reaffirm
acceleration [music] in their plans to
keep spending, just propping up that
semi trade that much more. Let's get to
crude. [music] Five-day winning streak
could become six. Brent crude this
morning just short of 108, up by 2% this
morning. WTI up by two percentage points
as well. Starting to see the tension
rebuild. Not just at the front end of
the yield curve, but rather [music] the
crude curve. But further out as well,
you can see which market I'm used to
talking about. Further out as well, to
the latter summer months and deeper into
the year into 4Q. This feels like a
stalemate and a lot of people are gaming
out how much it could really take to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz and then get
production restarted, which [music] is
the reason why you see Brent trading at
the highest levels in the December
contract going back to the start of this
conflict.
>> bond market briefly, yields a little bit
higher by single basis point at the
front end of the curve. The two-year
this morning at around 380. [music] And
as Savannah just this morning, an
attempted shooting in Washington, D.C.
Mr. President, do you know if you were
the target of the gunman? I don't know.
It sounded to me, I read a manifesto.
This This
radicalized. We started to realize maybe
it was
a bad problem. I was walking out. I was
pretty about halfway there and they
said, "Please go down to the floor.
Please go down to the floor." So, I
dropped to the floor. I wasn't worried.
I understand life.
We live in a crazy world. So, here's the
latest this morning. The suspect accused
of opening fire outside the White House
Correspondents Dinner expected to be
charged in federal court later on today.
Bloomberg's Taylor Kahl joins us now for
the latest from Washington. Good
morning, Taylor.
Hey John, good morning. Well, the
suspect is facing two federal charges,
though the U.S. attorney for D.C.,
Janine Pirro, says she expects more to
be added as the investigation unfolds.
It's right now in its beginning stages,
though preliminary evidence does suggest
that the suspect, Cole Allen Thomas, was
targeting administration officials. He
was carrying knives, a shotgun, and a
handgun. Manifesto reviewed by Bloomberg
News shows he wrote that President Trump
was a traitor. Now, the acting US
Attorney General for DC Todd Blanched
has suggested that Allen is not
cooperating with investigators though
they've already been able to piece
together some of his movements ahead of
the planned attack including that he
traveled cross-country by train from
California to Chicago to Washington
before he checked into the event space
the Washington Hilton several days ahead
of time. There are a lot of questions
here that still need to be answered when
it comes to what security protocols are
going to look like going forward though
the Secret Service has defended its
actions and John we can say President
Trump did confirm that one Secret
Service agent was shot though he says
that he has been fully recovered and
that he was protected because he was
wearing a bulletproof vest.
>> Tanya Kendra with the latest Tanya good
to see you safe and well as well. Tanya
we'll keep tracking that story for us
throughout this morning. Also tracking
the latest developments between Iran and
the United States. The latest from Axios
this morning Iran gave the US a new
proposal for reaching a deal on
reopening the Strait of Hormuz and
ending the war with nuclear negotiations
postponed for a later stage. This is the
view from Norman Roule of CSIS this
morning writing the following. The most
likely course over the coming week is
continuation of the current blockade and
indirect diplomacy. A narrow maritime
arrangement remains possible. Norm joins
us now for more. Norman Roule welcome to
the program. That last line a narrow
maritime arrangement remains possible.
Norman what do you mean by that and what
kind of arrangement might we see?
Good morning and first it's good to see
Anne Marie here and glad that she is
safe and obviously the president and the
other attendees.
It's possible that some sort of
arrangement to allow a limited amount of
humanitarian goods could go through but
that itself remains unlikely and here's
why. In essence the United States and
Iran each see the Strait of Hormuz as
not only the focal point for this but
their main pressure point over the
other. We're now in a three o'clock
contest. The United States sees the
control over the Strait of Hormuz as its
a sole opportunity to squeeze the
Iranian economy and that's a that's a
real pressure point. Inflation is a rise
rising in Iran and
it's enduring real economic pain as its
oil industry shuts down. But the
Iranians know the war power situation is
coming to a
head this Friday. It's only a political
issue in the near term for the president
but it's a real one. And of course
economic pressure in the world is
coming forward. So you've you've got a
situation where each side is in this
viewpoint that the
Strait of Hormuz is the central
pressure point for each other but
there's just a narrow narrow deal that
is out there. But we're in essence
negotiating on whether we should be
negotiating and the Iranians see the
Strait of Hormuz as their chance to get
out of jail economically. Norm, nice to
see you too this morning. Could this
maritime arrangement mean or is
acceptable by the United States if Iran
continues to have a toll and continue to
control it even if ships can pass
through?
That's unlikely and and let me explain
why. The United States sees that it the
only way that it's been able to bring
Iran to the table is for meaningful
talks has been through
economic pressure and military pressure.
Now if the Strait of Hormuz is open,
well the first thing that's going to
happen is what is the purpose of the
entire US military presence in the
region? Are we going to maintain three
aircraft carriers in the region if there
is no blockade? That's unlikely. So if
the military pressure is is is removed,
if the economic pressure is removed,
what do you think the chances are that
the Iranians are going to come to the
table with any serious negotiating
position? Now they'll come to the table
and they have done this for years with
multiple administrations but as history
has shown with the Iranians, they come
to the table to talk. That doesn't mean
they come to the table to talk about
anything seriously, and the Trump
administration, in fairness, knows this
history quite well. Mohammad Golibaf on
Twitter was talking about supply cards
that the regime could still use. The Bab
el-Mandeb Strait, he says, is unplayed,
as well as pipelines. Is this just a
threat, or do you think that we could
see real escalation?
Well, it's probably more accurate to say
someone typing on Twitter in the name of
uh of uh
um Mohammad uh Bagher Ghalibaf is
stating this. The Iranians do have the
capability of resuming hostilities, but
uh bellicose rhetoric has long been a
mainstay of uh Iran's uh public
diplomacy. Uh it's a possibility, but at
the same time, we have three aircraft
carrier task forces in the region, which
have an enormous military uh capacity to
uh produce uh uh quite a quite a
significant amount of destruction
against Iran's military and civilian
infrastructure.
Norman, I'm curious about uh the
economic blockade that the US is
engaging with, and how much leverage
it's giving the United States versus
Iran, given the fact that it is starving
them of much-needed dollars, and there's
discussion about dissent among the ranks
who aren't getting paid. Do you have a
sense of how long Iran has to hold out
versus the US and its allies?
No, and that information is not going to
be known outside of uh probably Iran and
intelligence services. Now, Iran is
going to hold that data very close. It
doesn't want the world to see that the
pain uh of of uh that is being imposed
by the economic blockade, nor the
military damage uh is uh uh how serious
that is going uh is to actually uh being
uh felt, because it's going to want to
appear to be robust, defiant, not much
is happening. But the pain is genuine,
and it's likely that the administration
has a good idea of this, and for this
reason uh
uh is willing to uh uh hold off on
negotiations. So, you've got each side
understanding the pain of the other.
It's just that the Iranians can see the
US political pain because our system is
open. For the United States, it's going
to have to assess this through
other other means. No, I'm always glad
to see you to get your reflections on
the current state of things. Thank you,
sir. Now we're going to roll there at
CSIS. Great this morning, I'm Brian.
Just short of 108. Without extreme
inventory draws, this number would
probably be a lot higher. And that's the
view of Goldman Sachs this morning as
well. Extreme inventory draws are
unsustainable. Even sharper demand
losses could be required if the supply
shock persists for even longer.
>> A lot of people have been saying this
for something with something like a
million barrels that are now withdrawn
from the overall market as a result of
this closure. And you have the
trajectory right now, as we were hearing
about late last week from the folks over
at Goldman Sachs. The trajectory is for
record low inventories. This gives a
very low cushion and is part of the
reason why maybe you haven't seen more
of a disruption at the front of the end
of the oil curve so far. And it's why
you're seeing an Axios story about maybe
you can have some sort of maritime deal
when it comes to straight of Hormuz, but
not actually a nuclear deal. Gasoline
this morning, $4.11.
Huge problem for the White House heading
into the midterms. [music]
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Stephen Schork of the Schork Group
on crude still rising. Plus, you Hyra
has your morning movers. Qualcomm
getting a boost from a potential
partnership with Open AI. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
Four weeks of gains on the S&P 500.
Believe it or not, the longest weekly
[music] win streak going back to October
2024. Equity futures this morning
pulling back from all-time highs down
just a tenth of 1% [music]
on the Nasdaq. Big week for the Nasdaq
up by tenth of 1% this morning heading
into a lot of earnings later this week.
Four names accounting for [music] about
a quarter of the index coming up on
Wednesday. Before we get all to all of
that, we've got to talk about the run in
chip stocks. 18 days of gains for chips,
up another 10% just last week alone.
Nvidia this month, and April's not
finished yet. Nvidia's [music] up 20%
almost this month. That's more than $800
billion of market cap added [music] to
that single name. Hitting a record high
after really
neglecting to do so over the past number
of months despite the record highs in
the overall indexes. That [music] chip
run, the 18 straight days, it is up 39%
in that period of time.
>> Do you see the affirmation of that run
when you see the earn the capital
expenditure plans of some of these big
tech [music] players? Does that give it
more wind, or is the bar now so high
it's sort of buy the rumor, sell the
news? And I think that's going to be one
of the more interesting aspects to see.
>> 60% run for chip stocks.
Just amazing. With this taking place in
the commodity market, that's [music]
what's insulating the equity markets day
side. Looking at crude this morning,
Brent up every single day last week.
Over that 5-day period, [music] higher
by some 16% and up again this morning by
two. To around 108. And as we keep
talking about this, it's not just the
front end of the futures curve. It's the
longer end of the curve as well,
starting to price in higher for longer.
There [music] is a feeling of a boiling
the frog here. That the longer this goes
on, the more we could hit some sort of
key thresholds where it gets a lot
harder to bring oil back online. And
frankly, the shortages are becoming very
real, and that is what a lot of
strategists [music] are looking at.
Citi's Ed Morse came out and said
ultimately we could hit that tipping
point where suddenly it becomes this
concern of the stock market. Right now
it isn't, but it very well could be, and
we might be getting close.
>> Well, this Goldman story is talking
about what prices will be like [music]
in the fourth quarter if we have extreme
inventory drawers, which if the Strait
of Hormuz continue to be [music] shut
for prolonged period of time, we will
have those drawers. It's about $30
higher now for their fourth quarter
adjustment [music] than it was before
the conflict began. It was around 60 for
the fourth quarter, and now it's an
average of 90.
>> [music]
>> And that's up from my previous forecast
of 80. These are big revisions that keep
clicking in. In the bond market, twos,
10's, and 30's, we can spend some time
on the future of the Federal Reserve a
little bit later this morning. Let's
just sit on the two-year [music] yield
basically unchanged up maybe a single
basis point to around 380 378.66
this morning. As we count you down to
the up and about three hours away, let's
get you some single names, some morning
movers. Yahaira has more. Hey Yahaira.
Hi John. Chips could be up again today
given this move here in Qualcomm shares.
Shares are up 10 and 1/2% in the
pre-market on a report that it could be
working with Open AI on smartphone.
Something we know Open AI has been
interested in ever since it [music]
acquired Apple legend Jony Ive's startup
last year. But even though this is just
a report and still early days, it's
enough to get investors excited about
the potential of an Open AI smartphone.
And that same report is pushing Apple
shares lower down 1 and 1/2% [music] on
the concern that Open AI can push into
the hardware market and become a direct
challenger to Apple where consumers
>> [music]
>> might opt for a smartphone built around
AI from the start from the ground up.
And we end on the car rental company
Avis. Those shares down 2 and 1/2% in
the pre-market after a 70% [music]
plunge over the last three sessions. But
remember this stock had a run up some
600% [music] in just a matter of weeks.
That largely due to a short squeeze. But
we are seeing a bit of an unwind here.
But it's a move very reminiscent of the
meme stock days. John. [music] Yahaira,
thank you. What a wild ride. More from
Yahaira in the next hour. On our radar
this morning Iran signaling it may be
willing to accept an interim deal with
the US. Axios reporting Tehran will
reopen the Strait of Hormuz if
Washington lifts its naval blockade and
postpones nuclear talks. Elsewhere the
president recounting his evacuation from
the White House Correspondents Dinner
telling 60 Minutes his policy decisions
may put him in greater danger.
This appears to be the third
attempted assassination on your life.
Why do you think so many people may be
trying to kill you?
>> I've done quite a bit of research into
the word assassination, and they go
after consequential presidents.
>> Your policies are also controversial. Is
that part of it? Well, I don't think
that way. I don't think in terms of what
they are. I just think of what they are
for the country. The FBI and Secret
Service investigating a potential motive
for the shooting. And finally,
Republican Senator Tom Tillis is ready
to advance Kevin Warsh's Fed chair
nomination. Tillis saying the DOJ's
decision to end this criminal
investigation into current Fed chair Jay
Powell eases concerns over Fed
independence, which raises the question
not about Kevin Warsh's future, but now
about Chairman Jay Powell's. If you were
thinking that this was going to be a
boring Fed meeting on Wednesday, when
Chair Powell gets to the podium, I can
say it will not be. And this will be the
ultimate question. What is your plan? Do
you plan to stay on? What is your
threshold? I know he will have written
answers to this, but every journalist in
there does not care what his view of
forward interest rates really looks
like. They care about his future and
what the composition is going to look
like. And ultimately, he will have to
respond in some capacity.
>> There was one line in this news
conference that's going to be repeated
into Wednesday with transparency and
finality. So, when we heard from the US
District Attorney Jeanine Pirro, she
said the following, "Would not hesitate
to restart a criminal investigation
should the facts warrant doing so." If
we wrap this up with transparency and
finality. Well, the way Senator Tillis
talked about it, he said that he's been
given assurances by the DOJ that they
are stopping when it comes to the probe.
But the Fed Inspector General is
pursuing a separate probe when it comes
to the cost overruns and seeing if there
was anything egregious when it comes to
the building renovation. But he feels
like he has enough from the DOJ to
pursue a yes vote on Wednesday at the
Senate Banking Committee to make sure
Kevin Warsh goes through. You know, I
tried to talk to Jeanine Pirro about
this at the White House Correspondents
Dinner before all the chaos with Tyler
Kendall. She just wanted to talk about
fashion. Then when I said, "Well,
actually I came up here to talk to you
about the DOJ, what's going on with
Kevin Warsh and Jay Powell?" She goes,
"Oh, do you want to know about that?"
And then walked away. That meets the bar
for Senator Tillis. The question I'm
asking you is whether that meets the bar
for Fed Chair Jay Powell, who could
remain on the board for the time being.
Is he trying to keep leverage to get it
completely dismissed in some capacity
where he isn't going to have liability
after the fact? And does he get sort of
preserve his immunity by staying on the
board? All really reasonable questions.
All should be asked. And frankly, do we
get the transparency and directive at
this Fed meeting about what exactly's
going to happen?
>> Chairman Powell in the hot seat. Looking
forward to that on Wednesday afternoon.
Let's turn back to the commodity market.
Crude rising for five consecutive days
with the US-Iran peace talks at a
standstill. Stephen Schork of The Schork
Group writes in The Smart Money has
already exited and the crowd hasn't
noticed. Producers are looking locking
in $90-plus prices. Barrels are already
sold into 2026. Stephen joins us now for
more. Stephen, welcome to the program.
Let's pick up on that line. The smart
money has already exited and the crowd
hasn't noticed. Just build on that for
us, please.
Yeah, absolutely. So, since the start of
the conflict eight weeks ago, we saw a
rise in open interest, a rise in
trading, and positions and long
positions being held by hedge funds and
proprietary or
trading desks from our institutional
investors. But net-net, eight weeks into
it, the hedge funds are only net long
now 45,000 contracts where we were
before the conflict. Given that we got
50% rise in oil prices,
we're seeing a very de minimus reaction
now by the hedge funds. So, it looks
like the hedge funds did participate in
this. They did ride this up. And now
they've moved to the sidelines. The same
with the other side of it, the other
reporter large speculators. Their
position is effectively zero since the
start of this. They came into this at a
certain length and they're no longer
today than they were 2 months ago at the
start of the conflict. So, that smart
money being the large speculators
have moved to the sidelines right now.
So, they certainly participated, but
they're no longer participating at this
time. So, they've moved to the sidelines
keeping their powder dry waiting for the
next headline to make their next move in
the market. But, clearly they're out of
the market out of the run at this point.
Stephen, have we moved away just
slightly from the headline roulette that
we had been experienced for a number of
weeks where suddenly this feels like a
stalemate. This feels like a higher for
longer situation where there is
destruction in terms of just the
facilities as well as potentially in
demand coming from over in Asia. Are we
reaching that tipping point?
Oh, absolutely. Now, the the difference
here than was 2 months ago. 2 months
ago, end of February, March when this
began, global demand for oil on the
calendar is at its weakest point. This
is when the refineries are shutting
down. They're buying fewer barrels.
They're getting ready for the summer
demand season. Well, it's late April.
Couple more weeks we'll be at Memorial
Day. Peak demand season for gasoline,
for diesel, for jet fuel. So, that
hammer is about to hit the market. So,
perhaps on the speculators the
speculators side, they're sitting there
waiting for this hammer to hit. But, we
are 3 to 4 weeks before we hit the peak
demand season, and this is what likely
has been keeping a cap on prices. Just a
lack of demand both from demand
destruction because of higher prices,
but also the normal seasonal demand
destruction that we see in February,
March, and early April. But, that's
about to change. So, absolutely that uh
we're looking at a market now higher for
longer certainly through the rest of
this summer into the third quarter uh is
the play at this point.
>> And Stephen, to reiterate that point, I
mean Jen and I have been talking about
the forward curve in oil futures and how
it does seem to be increasing uh the
cost over into December with $90 a
barrel almost uh at one point. You're
talking about how producers are locking
in 90 plus dollars a barrel for the
remainder of this year. How long could
you see that type of price level
persisting?
Well, absolutely. Well, that is one of
the caps. That's one of the positives in
the market where producers, when we look
at the CFTC data, have sold WTI
approximately 200 million barrels of
oil. Now, are they not going to be
producing that, but their hedge desks
are well prepared for this. So, there is
going to be a significant amount of oil
production coming to the market to
offset those hedges. So, certainly when
we're starting to look at the back end
of the curve, this is kind of the
signals that we are getting now. When we
look at the the spread relationships in
the that term structure of forward
prices. Oil prices now going into the
fourth quarter, which again, now we get
the point where we're coming out of the
peak season into a lull in demand, but
certainly we're looking at now $9 a
barrel now becoming more of the norm as
you look forward through the end of this
year. Stephen, you say Gulf Coast
products Gulf Coast products are running
on fumes heading into Memorial Day. How
much higher could we see US gasoline?
Yeah, absolutely. So, that is that is
the the real concern. And it's a really
interesting phenomenon because now we
have of course the Gulf Coast uh
refinery epicenter, which majority of
that production gets put on pipelines
that get sent up into New York Harbor
the Colonial Pipeline. And we also have
a domestic uh vessels that do transport
barges into New York Harbor. But, we've
waived the Jones Act. So, now you have
foreign flag vessels that are allowed to
load product in Houston and move it into
the East Coast. And that has accelerated
because the access of that ability to
move oil out of the Gulf Coast has
accelerated a significant downturn in
inventories in that region at the most
important part of the year. So, how high
can we go? I believe uh on the previous
segment you quoted uh gasoline prices
national average around $4.11. Well, 3
years ago, we were at over $5 a gallon
at this point. We're not going there yet
at current pricing. The market has
priced it in, but certainly if we get we
start ticking higher about every dollar
barrel higher of crude oil translates
into about 1.9 to 2 cents at the pump
for the consumer. So, right now we are
certainly pushing up to the levels 4.11.
We calculated possibly 4
2 months ago we calculated 4.25 national
average coming into the summer. That was
holding the status quo. So, at this
point the answer to that is if oil
prices hold in this range mid-90s to
105, 425, 440, 450 is likely the highest
we are looking at. So, it all depends on
where oil prices are going at this
point.
>> Stephen, do you think this
administration could go back to the
drawing board and potentially make sure
there's an export ban heading into the
midterm elections?
Yeah,
I've I've started to hear that now and
it's a very scary proposition
at this point
to look at an export if it's an export
ban on crude oil, well, well, why are
why are we doing that? Because a lot of
crude oil we produce, we don't even
consume. We don't we can't maximize not
at our refineries. So, we want to keep
that
trade open cuz what we did was we
produce high-quality oil, sell it at a
premium, and then replace it for our
refiners with a lower quality, lower
priced oil. The trade balance
standpoint, that's a no-brainer. But
I've had rumblings now about an export
ban on products.
This is a political event. Economically,
from a market standpoint, from a trading
standpoint, it is just a doom loop that
will ultimately push prices even
ultimately higher. But from a political
standpoint, it doesn't matter if you're
on the right, you're on on the left,
stupidity knows no political bounds. So,
we saw some pretty dodgy moves in the
past administration. I wouldn't put it
past this administration to do something
because why would they do that?
Politically, they can say that aha, you
see, we exported product and we put the
ban on these products, but prices are
still going higher. So, who are you
going to blame after that? It's going to
be those greedy oil companies you're
going to blame, not the whole market
mechanism that you're playing around
with. So, it is a possibility. You can't
rule anything out in this market these
days.
>> And that can get messy, and messy
quickly. Stephen Tankel he says. Stephen
Schork there of the Schork Group. Crude
on a five-day winning streak, we can
make it day six. We've got gains today,
rising for a sixth consecutive day.
Brent crude 106.81, up by more than 1%
this morning. With an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Bonnie Quynh Anh Vo is
with me. Hey Bonnie. Hey John, thank
you. President Donald Trump saying
Saturday night's shooting justifies the
White House's need for a new ballroom.
Last month, a federal judge ordered
construction stopped [music] until the
president gets approval from Congress.
The DOJ filed for the lawsuit to be
dismissed [music] following the
shooting.
Deep Seek is pitching aggressively low
prices in an attempt to intensify
competition across the Chinese AI
market. The company is offering a 75%
discounts to developers using its new
flagship model V4 Pro.
A group of budget airlines including
Frontier and Avelo is seeking two and a
half million dollars in government
assistance. The Wall Street Journal
reporting the airlines would offer
warrants that could convert into equity
stakes.
And that's your Bloomberg brief. John.
Hey Bonnie, thank you. More from Bonnie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, confirming Kevin Warsh.
I am prepared to move on with the
confirmation of Mr. Warsh. I think he's
going to be a great Fed chair. This will
allow Mr. Warsh to move on with his
confirmation on time. Will it allow
Chairman Powell to move on? Someone to
decide Franklin Templeton joins us next.
>> Equities on the brink of turning
positive on the session so far, just
about unchanged on the S&P 500, positive
on the Nasdaq up another 0.15%
under Savannah's this morning confirming
Kevin Warsh.
I am prepared to move on with the
confirmation of Mr. Warsh. I think he's
going to be a great Fed chair. This will
allow Mr. Warsh to move on with his
confirmation on time. And then Mr.
Powell will will have to make his own
decisions [music]
at some point in the future about when
when and if he leaves the board before
the end of his 2028 term expiration. So
here's the latest this morning, Kevin
Warsh clearing committee hurdle to
become Fed chair after the DOJ dropped
its probe into the central bank. The
Senate Banking Committee set to vote on
Wednesday. Sonali Desai Franklin
Templeton joins us now for more. Sonali,
good morning. Good morning. We can get
into the future of the Federal Reserve
under Kevin Warsh in just a moment. I
just want to get through the Federal
Reserve current chair, Chairman Powell,
and what's going to happen to him. So
some key dates. So May 25th is when his
term finishes Mhm. as Fed chair. 2028 he
can stay on the board as a Fed governor.
Which date do you think he's going to
choose here?
You know,
there Number one, I don't know.
It really depends on what he wants to
do, but number two, I'm not sure it
matters. It really doesn't matter. This
this notion that somehow
the current Fed chair is the only thing
standing behind complete loss of
credibility of the Fed and whatever else
lies ahead. I think that's misguided. I
think that the institution is relatively
strong and enormously dovish. So I don't
think that it's just J. Powell who
stands between Enormously dovish. Does
that change with the change of one man
then? No. I don't I I I actually You
know, so again, this entire focus on
loss of credibility for the Fed seems to
really focus on the idea that this is
what is going to cause the Fed to lose
credibility. And I would argue the Fed
actually did it to itself and it
monetized fiscal deficits of close to
25% of GDP over a 2-year period. I'll
just repeat, 2021, 2022. So everything
since then is the Fed trying to regain
credibility. And I don't happen to think
that Kevin Warsh is going to change that
dynamic.
>> Well, there is this question about
whether he is going to be dovish and
whether he's going to cut rates even in
the face of inflation that potentially
is stickier for longer as a result of
what's going on with oil prices. Do you
agree with that? I mean, do you think
that this is ultimately someone who,
even though he has been hawkish for most
of his career, will skew dovish in the
face of political pressure?
So, I would say if he does skew dovish,
I would be surprised because the biggest
thing he's talked about is the idea of
taking monetary policy back to its
orthodox roots, which means you don't
buy long-end treasuries. If the US Feds
If the Feds' overall balance sheet had
expanded at the average pace of nominal
GDP, we would be looking at a balance
sheet of around 1 and 1/2 to 1.6
trillion today as opposed to closer to
What is it? 8 trillion? So, we're
looking at somebody who's taking the Fed
back to its roots. And I think that's
On the back On balance, what is more
important? Will he cut rates?
I think if the situation demands it,
right now I'm not calling for more Fed
rate cuts this year based on
fundamentals. So, where does this leave
you in terms of your market expectation?
Because listening to that, I could make
two ideas. One, if he really is going to
be hawkish potentially based on what he
said in the past or at least trying to
reframe the Fed around its old
framework, well, then 2% inflation
remains 2% inflation. I would buy long
bonds because ultimately that would be a
very different scenario than say a
dovish Fed. If this is someone who's not
going to be buying long-term bonds, on
the other hand, that's potentially a
pressure. Where do you line up on that?
So, right now, I'm not buying long bonds
here, because I don't think long bonds
are yet fully pricing what I think is
going to happen. And you've got to look
into a multi-year period here. And I
hear the where I disagree with Kevin
Warsh is his idea that
productivity, stronger productivity
growth, is necessarily going to lead to
a lower, call it a neutral nominal Fed
funds rate. I don't actually agree,
because that Fed funds rate is a
combination of inflation and long-term
productivity. So, the idea that the
disinflation from productivity is going
to be enough to make up for the increase
in productivity, it
I'm not sure that works. I'm not sure
that the round of productivity increases
we're going to get this time will
necessarily be disinflationary. So, what
I mean by this is 2% productivity
growth, 2% inflation, 4% Fed funds
neutral rate.
I'm not sure where a 2% inflation, and I
actually think we're going to get higher
than 2% productivity growth. So, if
anything, I think neutral Fed funds is
higher.
>> Right, but this Fed has shown it's
willing to cut interest rates even
without 2% inflation.
>> So, wouldn't he be able to make a case
to this
the FOMC?
He could, but not when not right now,
and I don't think not this year.
Essentially, I don't see oil prices, and
this is a headline issue, I totally get
that. Headline issue, I don't see oil
prices coming down. We estimate around
25-35 basis points of inflation for each
10% increase in oil prices. You easily,
comfortably get closer to four. Now, I
get it, they're supposed to see through
it, but after the period we just came
through in 2022, 2021, I doubt that this
Fed is going to be cutting into that.
>> You said something that actually you
could argue that the neutral rate is
higher than where it is currently. Yeah.
Is this a Federal Reserve under Kevin
Warsh that you could see hiking as its
next move?
Only if we thought inflation was
significantly higher. I see this Fed
frozen next year. Could we see a Fed
funds higher? It's possible. It's not my
baseline right now, but I'm certainly
not anticipating additional cuts from
trade.
>> What would make it your baseline?
So, what is significantly higher
inflation? What is that? Going from
three to four, four to five? What is
that?
>> So, to me it's more four to five. Three
to four, I believe they probably look
through. You start going to four to
five, you're looking at second round. Do
you think this labor market strong
enough, tight enough to generate that
kind of inflation?
You know, the labor market is pretty
balanced, and I think it's improving.
It's not It's not deteriorating here.
The The data which has come out is all
hawkish. It's a very difficult situation
for anybody to come in and start
cutting. Sonal, great to see you, as
always. Sonal Desai there at Franklin
Templeton. This labor market, the data
we've seen more recently has been pretty
decent in the US economy. The only
outlier seems to be the confidence
figures, the sentiment numbers. I really
struggle with the sentiment figures. The
idea that you Mitch consumer sentiment
has never been lower in the history of
that survey going back to the late '70s.
Think about everything that's happened
in between over the last 40, 50 years.
Yeah, I can't imagine that uh people
felt much better in 2008 maybe in
October after Lehman Brothers had fallen
and the real question about the mortgage
overhang. Look, a lot of people have
disregarded the sentiment figures as
something that they put into their
models and then reject when they get
other data that seems to contradict it
and people are looking at things like
Neel Kashkari saying, which is that
actually you are seeing hiring pick up
to Sonal's point, and that are the Those
are the metrics that people are really
going to keep their eye on.
>> the sentiment figures, it's basically
become somewhat of a political poll, and
that's really what it is. It's showing
sentiment about politics. Do you agree
with the president and his policies or
not? You see employment picking up as
well. It's good to see you. Seen some of
that data? Are you kidding? I was
getting very excited. Like, only [music]
four more years. Hang in there. You need
them to get paid, right?
>> them to get paid at the other side. Not
coming. Bankrolled by me. Coming up on
the program. It's good news. Catch up
with Russ Koesterich of BlackRock,
Henrietta Treyz of Federated Hermes,
Jonathan [music] Krinsky of BCIG, Colin
Martin at Charles Schwab. The second day
of Bloomberg Surveillance just around
the corner.
It is going to be I think very tough for
the Fed to change their stance. We do
think the Fed will still get in at least
one if not two cuts by the end of this
year.
>> The focus the next couple months will
absolutely still be inflation data. Our
view is that you're going to get demand
destruction in some way. I'm
increasingly worried that you're seeing
pressure on the consumer. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
[music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and Anne
Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second day of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now.
The price action, your scores look like
this. Unchanged following four weeks of
gains on the S&P 500. All-time highs on
the Nasdaq and up another 2/10 of
[music] 1% this morning. Going into a
week full of tech earnings. Let's get to
Wednesday and the week ahead. [music] On
Wednesday, we've got the likes of
Amazon, Microsoft, Meta, Alphabet.
Thursday, get a sneak peek of Apple and
what's happening over at Apple HQ. In
the meantime, you've got an 18-day
winning run on semis that could become
day 19. Thank you, Qualcomm. And the run
keeps building. And it really is
predicated on the idea that spending is
existential and will keep going. Do we
see that [music] 40% rally continue
given the fact that likely these tech
giants are going to talk about that.
Just to put into perspective how big of
a week it is. $28.8 trillion of market
capitalization is how much the companies
that are reporting earnings this week
account for [music] in the S&P 500. Just
on Wednesday alone, it's $14.3 trillion.
So, this really does give us a sense, A,
of the resilience and B, of just how how
how high the bar is for these names to
continue to be the safe haven.
>> They are the secular tailwinds guiding
and driving [music] this equity market.
These are the cyclical headwinds that
we've been talking about throughout the
week as well. [music] Brent crude, WTI,
Brent crude around 107, WTI around 95,
and another gain this morning. Brent up
every single day last week and up again
this Monday morning.
>> What this says to me is that the market
is now conditioned for these Sunday
night news stories that potentially a
deal's on the horizon, but it's actually
not. And I'm talking about what had came
out last night from Axios saying that
Iran through Pakistani mediators gave
the US [music] a new proposal for
reaching a deal on reopening the Strait
of Hormuz and then basically putting on
the back burner when it comes to the
nuclear file. At the moment, that is not
the case in terms of what is actually
happening on the ground. The Strait of
Hormuz remains shut, and that is why
you're seeing firms [music] like Goldman
Sachs coming out and saying we're going
to see higher for longer crude. Speaking
of Dollar Shaver, the door is officially
shut on a merger between American
Airlines and United Airlines. Just
getting a statement [music] from the
United Airlines CEO, Scott Kirby, just
moments ago. Yeah, he's saying this is a
very personal It's a very different kind
[music] of press release, which is first
person. Over the last 2 weeks, there's
been a lot of commentary about a
potential merger between United and
American, and to be direct, here's what
happened. I approached American about
exploring a combination because I
thought we could do something incredible
for customers together.
>> [music]
>> He was confident with this combination.
He was hoping to pitch the story to
American, but they declined to engage
and instead responded by publicly
closing the door, and without a willing
partner, something this big simply can't
get done. It goes on, the statement
does, and we'll bring you more headlines
from it, but ultimately it raises the
question, something can't get done with
American, but can something get done
with someone else in the sector? [music]
And it seems like there's an open door
given the fact that budget airlines have
their hands out to the government
looking for some sort of bailout. Can
you see a wave of consolidation? Is this
administration amenable to things that
perhaps a previous administration was
not? That really is the question as we
see other announcements for mergers.
There's a huge wave of mega mergers that
has been emerging in 2026. Does the
airline industry enter in [music] stage
left? What I find is interesting is this
potential United America as I was
calling it. To John's point, maybe there
is just consolidation elsewhere. And we
had an airline analyst on talking about
[music] the fact that maybe if they want
an end when it comes to JFK, they would
need to look at something like a
JetBlue. What I find interesting about
this statement [music] is that not only
is is the CEO you're talking about this
potential and how it's very personal. He
went himself to go pitch this, but goes
through the benefits of what the
combination could have produced.
Potentially an appetizer for maybe
another airline.
>> eyeballing this, but 2/3, maybe close to
80% of the statement [music] is about a
rationale for further consolidation in
the sector.
>> Yes.
Which to me, yes, closes the door on
American, but leaves the door wide open
for combination with someone somewhere
down the line.
>> Yeah, JetBlue is something that people
have talked about, right? Who are the
other airlines that [music] might be
potential suitors or that Clearly this
is the ambition over at United.
>> United is smartly down by 0.5%. More
[music] on that sector a little bit
later. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Russ Koesterich of BlackRock
heading into a big week for tech
earnings. We'll speak to Henrietta Treyz
of Verity Partners on another potential
plan to reopen the Strait of Hormuz and
Colin Martin of Charles Schwab as the
path to Kevin Warsh's Fed nomination
clears. We begin this hour with stocks
at record highs ahead of key tech
earnings. Russ Koesterich of BlackRock
writes in the following, "We've been
increasing our equity exposure and
adding back US tech, which is
attractively priced relative to the
broader market." Russ joins us now for
more. Russ, welcome to the program. This
is the question people struggle with. Is
the outlook for the equity market now
really better than it was before this
war started?
Good morning, John. I don't know if it's
better, but it's still resilient. Uh the
reality is we probably are going to see
different drivers than we were expecting
back in January and February. And if you
remember back in the beginning of the
year, late 2025, it was all the broad
and out trade. It was about a better
than expect a better than trend economy
pushing up cyclicals, value, small caps.
And over the last 3 months that
narrative has changed and really has
gone back to a lot of what we were
talking about in 23, in 24, which was a
market where earnings are strong, but a
lot of that strength is being driven
primarily by tech and adjacent names.
Russ, the price of the story, 18 days of
gains for chips could become day day 19.
We haven't seen runs like these since
the early 2000s. Why is the price of the
story still attractive?
Well, first of all, you've never seen
earnings like this. I mean, you look at
what's happened right now for this
earning season, tech earnings growth
expected to be around 29%. Broader
market, half of that. The median stock,
half of that. So, this is an environment
again where the earnings are really
being disproportionately driven, but not
just tech, but by a relatively narrow
part of tech, particularly AI related,
the uh hyperscalers and semis. But the
other thing worth noting is that yes,
we've had this run over the last 2 3
weeks, but really since last summer,
tech repriced. And you look at the
relative PE of technology companies, the
S&P tech sector, relative to the broader
market, earlier this spring it got down
to the lowest we've seen in 5 years. So,
obviously some of that value has been
taken up with the rally, but they did
get cheap as investors abandoned the
sector and the space for other themes
like cyclicals.
Russ, do you think that the bar is
pretty high for earnings this week or
does it almost not matter and people are
going to look instead at what the
forward look is for CapEx and just
generally what the demand really seems
to look like?
It certainly matters. And again, you
know, to be clear, uh this rally is is
predicated on the notion that this part
of the market is going to outgrow
everything else. So, you're going to
need to one, deliver on Q1 earnings.
People are going to be looking at
guidance. I think the capex story is
interesting cuz we've gone through sort
of several reaction functions by the
market. Back in '23, '24, early '25, the
market applauded some of these huge
capex numbers. Then, in the back half of
'25, you had some skepticism
pre-pandemic. Is all the spending going
to be worth it? I think we're starting
to go back to a world in which people
are looking at that strong capex is a
sign of confidence, and that's something
else, as you point out, investors are
going to be focused on. This is a
fascinating point, Russ. So, you think
that the early read on Tesla tripling
their capex budget and then getting
punished in the market afterwards was an
anomaly, not necessarily a trendsetter
for what we can expect from the other
tech giants.
I think it's a little bit of a different
uh response with with Tesla than the
hyperscalers because again, you're
talking about a different business
model, and you're also talking about
this broader question about AI adoption.
Russ Koestrich of Bank of America there
with the latest looking out to the
equity market at all-time highs on the
S&P 500 and the Nasdaq. Can you make the
case things are better now than they
were before the war?
That's where the market is, ultimately,
at all-time highs.
>> Well, some people would speculate that
the capex that was not rewarded
necessarily by the market wasn't even
rewarded in the stocks that would
benefit the most from it because people
were moving on from the tech story and
were concerned about it. And suddenly
now, they're coming back around as they
look for other things that they can do
that isn't dependent on headline
roulette. And so, suddenly people feel
better, they look at the re-rating, and
they look at the fact that earnings have
continued to uh to gain. So, from that
perspective, yes,
I do wonder whether Rich's uh Russ's
last point there was was was correct,
and I think it's a really interesting
one, which is
that if we see big capex spending, that
it will actually be rewarded and a sign
of confidence once again by the markets,
not akin to what we saw from Tesla. And
that, I think, is a really interesting
one.
>> like to play headline roulette? Is that
the game you'd like to play? We play it
every Monday morning, so why not? Not
particularly, but sure, go ahead.
>> Usually can't get to the weekend talks
are happening, and then over the weekend
talks don't happen, and then you open up
on Monday morning and there's usually a
report. I'm sorry Axios, but it's
usually from you about how close we are
to a potential deal. So, this is the
latest from that publication. Iran gave
the US a new proposal for reaching a
deal on the reopening of the Strait of
Hormuz and ending the war with nuclear
negotiations postponed for a later
stage. That last piece of it is the most
important piece of it.
>> Right, because the nuclear talks would
obviously take months, maybe even years
when you look at history. How long did
the JCPOA take to come together? How
long did the Biden administration speak
to the Iranians their entire
administration? And then Trump too spent
a year talking to them about nuclear and
nothing ended up happening on that
point, which is why we are here today.
The key though also to that is that
obviously Iran knows their leverage and
it's the Strait of Hormuz and that's
what the president wants open.
>> Crude at the moment just short of 107.
On Brent WTI at about 95. Let's give you
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Vanya
Kwong has more. Hey Vanya. Hey John,
thank you. A 31-year-old man carrying
multiple guns and knives charged a
Secret Service checkpoint [music] at the
White House Correspondents Dinner
Saturday night. One officer who was
wearing a bulletproof vest was shot and
was taken to a hospital. The acting
Attorney General says the suspect was
targeting members of the Trump
administration.
Domino's Pizza are reporting first
quarter results that missed analyst
estimates. The CEO of the pizza chain
saying the company is facing quote an
intensifying macro and competitive
environment. Domino's is hoping to open
1,000 new stores [music] globally this
year.
United Airlines CEO saying its pursuit
of merger talks with American Airlines
>> [music]
>> has ended. In a press release, Scott
Kirby writing, I approached American
about a combination because I thought we
could do something incredible for
customers.
American declined to engage.
And that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Vanya, thank you. I suspect they still
think we can do something incredible for
customers combining with another airline
in the sector. And [music] and to me my
question is how big is their emphasis in
the international revenues that really
are going to drive profitability going
forward and how much are they trying to
pick up domestic gates? And that will
depend on which airline they really set
their targets on. Up next on the
program, we'll head down to Washington,
D.C. Peace talks on hold.
We have all the cards. We'll deal by
telephone and they can call us anytime
they want.
>> Ceasefire remaining. We can continue the
ceasefire? Uh haven't even thought about
it yet. Up next, we'll catch up with
Henrietta Treyz, a founder partner, live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
>> [music]
>> This week, tons of tech earnings. Check
it out. Alphabet Wednesday, Amazon,
Meta, Microsoft, Apple later in the
week. The gains so far this month,
Microsoft up 15%, Meta up 18, Alphabet
up 20, Amazon up 27. Some major moves
for big tech.
>> And you've asked a really good question
throughout the morning, which is [music]
how much have these companies actually
gotten better in terms of their
prospects and how much have people
actually flooded into these names
[music] to haven and could they actually
lose clout should there be a resolution
to the war in the Middle East and people
change their focus back to a broadening
out or some other trade?
>> So, one or two things I'd point to,
there are many but here's one or two.
One, it's refocused minds on the things
that they have confidence in this over
everything else right now. And we'll get
to the everything else in just a moment.
And two, it was odd coming into the new
year when you saw the [music] big
spenders, the hyperscalers, ramp up
spending and we went through those major
capex figures, [music]
capex intentions for the biggest
companies on the planet and you didn't
see a move in Nvidia and it just carried
on moving sideways and [music] doing
nothing. That was kind of strange.
>> And so now people are waking up to the
idea that that money has to go somewhere
and be spent somewhere. And guess what?
That's why we want to own
semiconductors. And the reason why we've
seen an 18-day stretch of 39% gains in
that particular area. Can that continue?
And at what point do they start to care
about what's going on in the rest of the
world? [music] That remains a question.
I keep thinking about the conversation
we had last week with an analyst pointed
to supply [music] chain constraints
within the chip universe. Do we start
hearing about that on the calls? And
could that stymie this idea that it is
completely isolated in a glass box away
from everything else happening?
>> We mentioned this repeatedly last week.
It's not a disconnect. It's a time
horizon difference. The tech story is in
the future, a better future, we hope.
[music] The present story, not a good
one right now. And this speaks to that.
Brent and WTI front month of the futures
curve close to 108 on Brent earlier on
this morning up every single day last
week up again so far this morning.
Building on those gains not just at the
front month, but also in the latter
months as well. That tension coming to
the surface.
>> we're seeing extreme inventory
drawdowns. And even though the United
States has been relatively insulated,
you are seeing the shocks that have
moved through Asia and have moved
through Europe. And at the moment, even
though you do have this Axios report
that maybe the Iranians are saying we
could do some sort of maritime
negotiation [music] on the Strait of
Hormuz, you have Mohammad Ghobadlou
talking about actually we have more
levers we can pull when it comes to
pipelines we can hit or the Bab el
Mandeb Strait we can hit. So, it's not
looking optimistic, especially when on
the ground the facts [music] haven't
changed.
>> this morning, peace talks on hold.
We have all the cards. We're not going
to spend 15 hours in airplanes all the
time going back and forth
to be given a document that was not good
enough. And uh
So, we'll deal by telephone and they can
call us anytime they want.
>> Do you think the ceasefire will remain?
Will you continue the ceasefire? Uh
haven't even thought about it yet. They
offered a lot, but not enough. So,
here's the latest this morning. Tehran
reportedly proposing an interim deal to
reopen the Strait of Hormuz pushing off
nuclear talks. Bloomberg's Dana Kendall
has the latest with more. Good morning,
Dana.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, at this
point it appears that the negotiations
remain at this stalemate. Though Axios
is reporting that Iran has presented
through Pakistani mediators this fresh
proposal that could include a reopening
of the Strait of Hormuz in exchange for
the US lifting its naval blockade. The
thing is this White House has maintained
that that's not going to happen. In
fact, CENTCOM confirmed over the weekend
that it had intercepted another US
sanctioned vessel that has carried
Iranian oil and officials have outlined
to us that they view the blockade as
leverage, especially if it appears that
Iran is now pushing to postpone dialogue
when it comes to its nuclear program. In
fact, Iranian state media put a little
bit more of a finer point on this fresh
proposal including that it has some
other points of contention in it
including that Iran would like to see an
illegal framework for the Strait of
Hormuz compensation for damages and also
some sort of pledge that the US and
Israel would not attack Iran again. Now,
despite all of this, John, President
Trump still maintains that diplomacy can
be a viable option even as he pulled
back on sending his special envoy Steve
Witcoff and his son-in-law Jared Kushner
to what was expected to be planned talks
in Islamabad over the weekend. But as
you heard him say there, he's now
suggesting that maybe peace talks could
happen over the phone telling reporters
that Iran can either come to us or they
can phone us. Dana Kendall with the
latest in Washington. Dana, thank you.
To build on that, Henretta Treacy of
Vale Partners writes it's hard to see
how the Strait reopens for business
absent military escalation, which
President Trump has been trying to avoid
in recent weeks. Henretta Treacy joins
us now for more. Henretta, welcome. What
does that mean for the diplomatic effort
ongoing as we speak?
I think the diplomatic effort is
extraordinarily complicated and I just I
really like to bring it back to tax
policy because I think it makes so much
sense. So long as the IRGC, which is a
state state-sanctioned sponsor of
terror, has the ability to collect a
toll, and EU nations, any Western
banking country, has to go through the
strait and potentially pay a toll or pay
a tax, that is the end of the story.
That cannot be permitted. I've spoken
with international nations,
international business groups, they will
not engage in that communication and
that tax component. And so those
negotiations are incredibly tricky. I
wish that there were more deputy-level
negotiations going on. That would give
them something to build off of, give a
reason for J.D. Vance to spend those 15
hours on a plane, um that they just
don't have right now. So we're in this
stalemate for a very long time, and
you're going to see the inflationary
impacts of it for as long as that's the
case, and then well after. If the people
you're talking to say a toll is not
permissible, then what could potentially
be acceptable?
That that's sort of why I say I don't
see a path forward that doesn't include
a military component or a really
expanded coalition that brings in the EU
and also China to have a negotiation
with Iran that allows them to move away
from controlling the strait, which is
both cheap and inexpensive and easy for
them to do um
at this current time, and that's why
they've been in control of it for so
many days now. I I think that we either
need to see more military escalation,
which the president is averse to at this
point, or we need to get EU and China in
the game to a greater extent. But at the
same time, this White House is
definitely focused on rising gasoline
prices. On Friday, we were talking about
the waiver when it comes to the Jones
Act. When you talk to members of
Congress, what are they prepared to do?
There's a flurry of amendments that are
filed across all kinds of inflationary
pressure. So there's a ethanol fuel
blending uh amendment that will be
attached to the farm bill that the House
is going to vote on this week. There are
a whole host of fertilizer-related
amendments because those prices are
going through the roof, and according to
the Farm Bureau, 70% of US farmers have
not bought their fertilizer for the next
planting season. So, there are a number
of small-scale efforts at the House and
the Senate level to get some price
controls, but the big two are really a
gas tax holiday, which will not be
included in this reconciliation bill,
but could theoretically be done via
executive order if, you know, President
Trump really wants to push the envelope,
or imposing an export ban as y'all have
been talking about this morning. This is
something that I'm sure bond investors
are listening to and saying, "Oh, no,
not again." Because ultimately what ends
up happening is if there are fiscal
responses and levers that are pulled,
then people keep spending and prices
will stay high and go higher and
suddenly it becomes a stickier kind of
consequence. How much discussion is
there about that type of economic
ramifications in Congress?
It's weird. I've been on the road for 2
weeks now with investors and I hear in
the litany of reasons to be optimistic
always some sort of allusion to a fiscal
spend, a fiscal package. It makes sense.
We're doing a reconciliation bill and
remember the last one was three and a
half trillion dollars of fiscal spend,
including a big thing that we talk about
when we're considering how consumers can
handle either the tariffs or the higher
gas prices. We've got the one big
beautiful bill, people are getting money
back. I think investors are uh it
like
primed to understand that reconciliation
means spending, so that maybe makes
sense. But this reconciliation bill that
they're working on right now does not
include any fiscal stimulus. It's
anywhere between 70 and 140 billion
dollars of spend just to keep ICE and
DHS open, but there's already talk of a
third reconciliation package and I don't
think there's going to be much in the
way of fiscal in that one either,
although there will be, you know, maybe
a 300 billion dollar price tag
associated with it. But um it it's this
weird contrast of the street expecting
DC to do something to help the US
consumer and then, as you point out,
bond markets who are like, "Please
don't." Well, there's a question about
the political appetite right now to give
some sort of support. Is there some kind
of fiscal discipline here or is it just
a lack of support for uh making it
easier to continue the war? I mean,
which is it because, you know, it'd be
great if people came out and said, "Wow,
they found fiscal religion." On the
other hand, it does seem like there just
is a sense that, "Please, resolve this
already."
Yeah, I mean, I don't go so far as to
say fiscal religion. We have a real debt
crisis in the United States, and that's
not something we're resolving right now.
But, as you go into the midterm
elections, you have a lot of
Republicans, particularly on the House
side, who want to see fraud, waste, and
abuse trimmed. Jody Arrington, the House
Budget Committee uh chairman, has a $180
billion, you know,
tweaks that he'd like to see that would
streamline things at the earned income
tax credit. We're not talking about, you
know, changing the retirement age or
fixing tax policy in the country. That's
That's nowhere right now. That's not
happening. Henrietta, when you travel
around with investors and you're talking
to them, are they at least breathing a
sigh of relief when it comes to the
future of the Federal Reserve?
Yes, definitely. Um I'm, you know,
obviously we're glad to see that the
White House capitulated to Senator
Tillis, and Senator Tillis in response
has said, "Okay, I'm fine voting forward
Kevin Warsh here." But, expectations on
the street have come in not because of
Warsh and not because of the positive
developments in terms of his advancing
his nomination, but because of the war.
There's a lot of confusion on the
street, quite frankly, about why gas
prices are so low when we haven't seen
material demand destruction in the
United States. 5% less than what we had
at the start of the war, and the war
continues, and the street remains
closed. The street remaining closed is a
compounding cascading thing, and we're
just waiting for the data to hit. That's
really the vibe I get from investors. Um
and the Warsh component is fantastic,
but you can't cut rates in a rising
inflation environment, you know, when
Lufthansa's cutting up 20,000 flights,
and Air Canada's canceled flights to JFK
for the next 5 months. I mean, you can
see the cascade coming, and investors
are basically just waiting for it. But,
just quickly on the Fed, the Inspector
General still going to be pursuing a
separate probe. Can that potentially
muddy the waters?
I actually expected it to muddy the
waters so plainly, and the reason I say
that Tillis and the president negotiated
a a ceasefire of their own and an
off-ramp here is that there is plenty of
room, and Powell's own statement made it
clear that if anything warrants, they'll
reopen this investigation. You know, my
conversation with Senator Tillis
strongly suggests that Jay Powell will
stay at the Federal Reserve for some
period of time after May 15th. So, I
think maybe that's the backstop that
he's relying on now, and I think
Powell's comfortable with that. I think
Senator Tillis has been given those
assurances, and again, as you know, a
lot of the members on the on the Senate
side in the Banking Committee and
elsewhere in the conference really like
the idea of ensuring fiscal independence
for the Fed, and they appreciate what
Senator Tillis has done for the last
couple of months here. Henrietta, thank
you for your input. Henrietta Treyz of
Vela Partners is making Wednesday
afternoon a little bit more interesting
for the Federal Reserve and Fed Chair
Jay Powell. This morning, things are
interesting for one specific reason,
it's Qualcomm. It's up in the premarket
by 13%
so far this morning. Chips have had a
major run. There's a rumor, I think you
could call it a rumor, based on a report
that maybe you have some kind of tie-up
with OpenAI, and that stock is
absolutely exploding higher so far this
morning.
>> Yeah, and it's interesting because
OpenAI has been both a liability and a
boon to a lot of the chip makers given
the fact that people are worried about
cyclical types of financing. Right now,
we're back to we [music] seem to be back
in boon phase, which may give a tell to
how people will trade on Wednesday.
Nasdaq futures up by 0.2% so far this
morning. Up next, we'll catch up with
Jonathan Krinsky [music] of BTIG with
chips on a record winning run. Live from
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
Equity futures just about unchanged on
the S&P 500 record winning run on the
Nasdaq and the chip stocks, the socks.
The chips index.
The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index on
an 18-day winning run. Over that period,
up by 40 to 50%. [music] This month
alone, Pramod, you keep giving us the
number. This month alone, up by
something like 40% for that index.
Unreal.
>> Yeah, it just been a moonshot. So,
people could say, "Well, what took so
long?" This is a catch-up trade. And
then you see things like Qualcomm this
morning coming out and seeing a reboot
at the potential of a tie-up or some
sort of agreement with OpenAI. And you
wonder, maybe this has more to go
because ultimately it is the one area
that people can keep investing in. And
if Russ Koesterich is right, the people
rewards from the big tech names
>> [music]
>> for spending that much more, well, some
of these names might be to the moon. 13%
move. Yohai is going to have more on
that for you [music] in just a moment.
Let's turn to the commodity market.
Brent and WTI, big run here as well. Up
every single day last week for Brent,
[music] up again this morning by just
0.5%. 105.89.
No sign of any diplomatic breakthrough
over the weekend.
>> And remember, we were supposed to see
talks this weekend and they were pulled.
J.D. Vance, Steve Wycoff, Jared Kushner
were supposed to go and then it was just
Steve Wycoff, Jared Kushner were
supposed to go and then those talks
ended. The president saying, "I'm not
sending my envoys there to have these
very long flights and then the nothing
materializes." Axios is saying there's
potentially a deal on the table. Put the
portfolio of nuclear down the road.
That's going to take months to maybe
even years to to get to some agreement.
But let's discuss the Strait of Hormuz.
And even then, the market isn't really
buying it this morning.
>> Let's turn to the bond market briefly.
Two's, 10's, 30's. Yields up just by
maybe a basis point or so. On two's at
the moment at 3.78. On 10's at 4.30.
[music] It's amazing how much of a side
show the Federal Reserve has become.
It's not the center of of attention for
the week ahead in quite the same way it
has been
>> [music]
>> in months gone by.
>> Even with the drama because ultimately
people are looking at what the Fed could
potentially do to affect this economic
cycle. They're as clueless as everybody
else and they're trying to track exactly
the balance of risks. They're subject to
potentially oil prices remaining higher
for longer. And a real question about
the employment figure that seems to be
actually firming up. So, it's a sideshow
because they're not going to do anything
and it's a sideshow because people can't
game it out. Throw that in the bucket of
uncertainties.
>> Jobs Day not this Friday, by the way.
It's coming next Friday. Got to wait
another week longer for that. All right.
To as away from the opening balance get
you some single names some morning
movers. Yuhara has more. Hi Yuhara. Hi
John. We have a few earnings to get
through and we start with Domino's.
Shares are falling 3.8% after same-store
sales growth came in well below [music]
expectations with the CEO pointing to a
tougher macro environment amid rising
[music] competition and analysts say
that the pressure could pile on for this
name because it is more exposed to lower
income consumers who as we know are
getting [music] squeezed by their those
higher energy prices. Turning to another
earnings story, Verizon. It was a beat
and a raise for that name. So, shares
are up 3.6% in the pre-market. The
[music] largest US wireless carrier
surprising the markets with a gain in
phone subscribers when analysts were
expecting a loss. So, that's showing
some early traction under a new CEO who
just took the helm [music]
6 months ago. And we end on Qualcomm,
the chip maker up nearly 14% in the
pre-market on this report that it is
teaming up with OpenAI to make
smartphones. This is something we know
that OpenAI has been interested in ever
since it acquired Apple legend Jony
Ive's startup last [music] year and
while this is just a report and still
years out, investors clearly [music]
excited about the prospect of OpenAI
smartphones. John. The parabolic move in
chips continues this morning. Yuhara,
thank you. And all right out this
morning Iran offering a new proposal for
reopening the Strait of Hormuz. Axios
reporting the deal hinges on the US
lifting its naval blockade and
postponing nuclear talks. Elsewhere,
President Donald Trump praising the
Secret Service following the shooting at
the Correspondents Dinner. The president
addressing the delay of his evacuation.
What happened is
it was a little bit me. I wanted to see
what was happening.
And I wasn't making it that easy for
him. I wanted to
see what was going on.
And by that time we started to realize
maybe it was
a bad problem. The suspect in the
shooting is set to be arraigned later on
today. And finally, a high-stakes
earnings week on deck for the
Magnificent Seven on Wednesday. Results
from Microsoft, Amazon, Meta, and
Alphabet with investors seeking updates
on AI spending. Apple rounds out results
Thursday after the close. I'm incredibly
interested in Apple in particular given
the fact that they now have new
leadership and potentially a need to
show some bold moves to really take them
into the next cycle. More importantly, I
question how high the bar is heading
into this earning cycle given the fact
that these have been the haven names. Do
we see some sort of embrace of any kind
of optimism in a new way given the fact
that people seem to come around to the
idea that this is probably real and it's
probably the best bet that you have
right now given all the uncertainty
everywhere else.
>> like these earnings need to confirm or
justify the rally that we've seen. And
if they don't, how much do the concerns
then seep back into the market about
what is actually going on when it comes
to the conflict because the facts on the
ground when it comes to the Strait of
Hormuz and Iran have not changed.
>> point, to some extent, they've been
amplifying the move in chip stocks. You
called them the haven names. I think
that's really important. Can't buy bonds
right now if you're worried about
inflation. What can you lean on? What do
you have a high degree of confidence in
and a lot of people seem to be turning
to the tech story once again. I love the
idea of the market as a human who
doesn't have a lot of attention and the
attention span can only really focus on
one or two things at a time. And it
feels like right now international noise
is becoming noise because ultimately
it's just fuzz. You can't really analyze
it or get an edge. So, people are going
and over-analyzing what they can get an
edge on and tech very much is rife with
pockets you can analyze and people are
going wild.
>> The run continues. It might become day
Chips extending a record run with 18
consecutive days of gains. Jonathan
Krinsky of BTIG writing, "Well, we've
been wrong on calling an end to the semi
run. We think the window for meaningful
downsize reversal is very close."
Jonathan joins us now for more.
Jonathan, welcome to the program. Let's
just start with a big important question
just to reflect on things. How
reminiscent is this of some of the price
action we saw into the early 2000s top?
Well, it's
in some ways it's the closest we've
probably seen since then.
On the other hand,
there's many metrics you could look at
that say we're well away from the
extremes we saw at that point. So, you
know, it it it depends what you're
you're looking for, but certainly it's
it's the closest we've probably seen
since then. Well, let's compare it to
say where we are relative to the 200-day
moving average, Jonathan. How big is the
gap now? And when was the last time it
was this wide?
So, we closed Friday about 48% above the
200-day moving average on the
Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. That
is the widest since 2000. But just for
perspective, we got to about 100% above
the 200-day at the peak in 2000.
But on the other hand, there's some
other things to look at such as the rate
of change over the last 18 days. And
when you look at that 18-day rate of
change,
it's the biggest into a 52-week high
on record. And and I think that the
telling part is a lot of times when you
see these big surges
off of you see these big 18-day surges,
they come in bear markets. They come
after meaningful drawdowns. And you
know, to put it in perspective, the the
second biggest move was
in June of 2000 off of you know, after
you already had about a a 60% correction
in the in the Semiconductor Index. This
is coming off just a mild 15% correction
that it didn't even break the 200-day.
So, it is quite um
quite literally the definition of a
parabola and we've been saying um
for the last few days that parabolas end
only in one way and that's equal and
opposite fashion to the direction they
came from. So, I'm wondering about the
other technical factors behind that. You
said that normally this only happens
after a bear market. Some people might
argue that there was essentially a bear
market, not necessarily in actual price
level, but the fact that people weren't
investing in this sector even with some
of the promises of spending by the big
tech names. How much are you seeing
people now fully invested or over
investing on a technical flows backdrop?
You know, look, I I don't think you
could say that people weren't investing
in semis. I think you saw this rotation
within semis. Uh I think that you know,
the kind of the two leaders last year
uh last time this last year this time
were kind of uh Nvidia and Avago. Those
peaked out in the summer, but then as
that was happening, you had this big
rotation into the memory names, the the
DRAM names. So, names like SanDisk and
Micron and those kind of um carried the
baton for a while and then now we're
kind of seeing everything rally and
that's also another sign when you see
names like Qualcomm this morning that's
been kind of a a dog in the semis, some
of the analog names that really haven't
done anything for the last year or two
and even those are getting a bid. You
know, that's usually the sign that that
the um that you know, the the sector in
question is kind of on its later
innings.
Um and again, this this type of move
into a new high is what is it is what is
the literally definition of a parabola.
We saw it in gold um
in January, February. We saw it in a
single name like Avis Budget last week.
So, we've seen this story before. Again,
I don't think this move ends in a
shallow sideways consolidation. It could
go a bit higher. We're seeing that this
morning, but ultimately you get a pretty
sizable retracement when following these
type of moves. Jonathan, do you feel
like this sector is isolated and you can
call it parabolic moves, you could say
bubble-icious types of behavior of wild.
I mean, whatever you want to
characterize it as. Do you see them as
isolated or or do you see other pockets
of the market that seem to be trading in
tandem and have similar characteristics?
Yeah, so one of the things that we
looked at is the high beta long momentum
long index
put up by Goldman and that basket really
contains a broad based basket of the AI
names, whether it's electrical
components, the optical names,
infrastructure.
We actually put out a chart of
Caterpillar
overlaid with the semiconductor index
and it's it's well over a 90%
correlation over the last couple years.
It's it's essentially the same chart.
So, there is a lot of there are a lot of
names in this AI theme that are
exhibiting similar behavior. And again,
it's it doesn't mean that, you know, the
the final top in the AI
trend is is here, but certainly this
sort of price appreci- appreciation
is vulnerable to a near-term correction.
Again, in equal and opposite fashion.
So, you know, the fact that we've seen a
40%
move in the last couple weeks in some of
these names, it's likely to give back a
large portion of that. Jonathan, are you
basically saying that it's anything that
touches AI?
I don't know about anything,
but certainly
a lot of the most popular and well
discussed and and known themes among AI
are certainly having a a big rally. But
yeah, I wouldn't say anything, but
there's a lot of a lot of touch points
here that are are certainly
having this trend. Jonathan, that line
you keep repeating and it's in your
research as well, equal and opposite.
Equal and opposite. Why does it have to
be that large?
I mean, again, just look through our
history.
You know, gold we saw in January and
silver.
We saw Nvidia's budget where the stock
went from
150 to 850 and then back to 200 in 3
days, right? So, you you just that's
just the the way that markets work when
you have this kind of
I would call it an unnatural advance the
last couple weeks, right? I mean, I
don't think we've ever seen any asset
anywhere
go the entire month without a down day
and we're you know, we're 3 days away
from that with semis. We saw something
similar in meta stock
last February early February where it
was up 20 straight days
and you know, that's just the way when
something goes that amount of time
without a pullback. That's unnatural and
it only ends by kind of a reversal of
that. That's just you know, what we see
throughout history. So again, it doesn't
mean we're going in a bear market for
semis, but I would expect a pretty good
retracement you know, once this kind of
blow off completes itself. Jonathan,
appreciate your time and your
perspective. Thank you. Jonathan Krinsky
that at BTIG an interesting note over
the weekend. I just wonder if Jim Cramer
were here. Take a walk, touch grass.
>> I'm not sure what Jim's talking about a
parabolic move in chip stocks when he
makes those comments. But you know,
there are a lot of people who feel like
there is something substantial that has
changed and we haven't seen earnings
like what we've seen so far. We could
potentially get spending plans. That
said, when something goes parabolic of
an all of our antennas go up and we're
all you know, used to looking for for
black swan moments and so you know,
maybe this could be something that gets
reversed.
>> a single down day for that sector
through April so far. First quarter felt
like a lifetime. April's just gone like
a flash. What's that about? I can't
really tell you because
>> really really quickly.
>> Maybe it's just sort of you know, once
you're if you're on a hike after like
the 15th mile, you no longer think about
life anymore. You just sort of keep
going and then it goes quickly. So maybe
it's something like that.
>> faster as you get older, right? So maybe
the first quarter just aged us all.
We're still in April.
>> time's just flying by.
I don't know. Well, the fact that we've
got time to talk about this means that
you know, clearly it's it it is flying.
No, I I I I take your point.
>> things to cover, important things I'm
told. Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Bonnie Quinn has more. Hey Bonnie. Hey
John, thank you. The man accused of
storming the White House Correspondents
Dinner spent years acquiring his weapons
arsenal. Cole Thomas Allen [music] sent
a lengthy manifesto to family members
that was seen by Bloomberg, where he
appeared to blast President Donald Trump
as a quote traitor who committed [music]
crimes.
Iran is offering the US a new proposal
for potentially reopening the Strait of
Hormuz and ending the war. [music] I
feel this is reporting the offer
postpones nuclear negotiations to a
later stage. President [music] Trump is
expected to hold a meeting with top
security and foreign policy officials
later today.
Elon Musk says he's nearing his goal of
turning X into an everything app. He
plans to launch a new financial services
tool called X money this month. [music]
The banking and payments platform would
offer 3% cash back on eligible
purchases, a 6% interest rate on cash
savings, and free peer-to-peer
transfers. That's your Bloomberg Brief,
John. [music]
>> Hey, Vauhini. Thank you. Thank you for
the update. Up next on the program,
cleared for confirmation.
I am prepared to move on with the
confirmation of Mr. Warsh. I think he's
going to be a great Fed chair. This will
allow Mr. Warsh to move on with his
confirmation [music] on time. Callum a
chance swap joins us next.
Futures unchanged this morning on the
S&P 500 on the Nasdaq. We had some way
to it up 2/10 of 1%. Qualcomm, what are
you doing? Up by double digits in the
premarket on a story I stress a story
connecting them to open AI and the gains
continue. [music]
>> Yeah, and it's a specifically with a new
kind of phone device. So, this is where
Qualcomm really surges. And the whole
idea of person, people matter. Johnny
I've, [music] the person who really
designed the iPhone coming in and
working on this with OpenAI and
Qualcomm, leading to a 13% gain after
the gains we've already seen, which is
just giving you a [music] sense of the
moonshot.
>> It's going to be 19 potentially for the
semi and decks here stateside. In the
commodity market, Brent and WTI look
like this. Brent crude around 106, up by
about 1% this morning. WTI higher as
well at 95 going into the Fed's next
meeting this Wednesday. A lot to look
forward to. And Lisa Vennettis this
morning cleared for confirmation.
I am prepared to move on with [music]
the confirmation of Mr. Warsh. I think
he's going to be a great Fed chair. So,
this will allow Mr. Warsh to move on
with his confirmation on time. And then
Mr. Powell will will have to make his
own decisions at some point in the
future about when when and if he leaves
the board before the end of his 2028
term expiration. [music] So, here's the
latest this morning. The confirmation of
Kevin Warsh clearing a massive hurdle
>> [music]
>> ahead of Fed chair Jay Powell's
potential final rate decision leading
the central bank. Colin Martin of
Charles Schwab writing, "This doesn't
change our monetary outlook for the rest
of the year. We expect zero or one rate
cut by the end of the year." Colin joins
us now for more. Colin, good morning.
Good morning.
>> Plenty of drama. Are you saying it's not
that relevant?
For the look ahead, for the lookout, for
the outlook? Not in the short run. No. I
mean, it's it's a committee of 12 voting
members, 19 full-time members. And
clearly the shift has been to a
wait-and-see mode as opposed to a we
need to cut. There there are only a few
officials who who are in the cut mode.
Myron, who is
giving his seat up to Warsh when he gets
confirmed. And Waller has shifted a
little bit. So, so our math doesn't
change. There's plenty of officials who
are worried about, you know, the
stickiness of inflation, the impact of
higher oil prices. So, I think it'll be
a pretty high bar for Warsh when he
comes in to to build consensus around
the idea of rate cuts anytime soon. So,
with that outlook, an extended pause,
maybe they cut by the end of the year,
but for the next several meetings,
probably just wait and see.
>> This from Andrew Hollenhorst of Citi
just moments ago. It makes guidance from
Powell at this week's meeting less
market relevant. Goes on to say, "If
anything, we see modest hawkish risk on
Wednesday." What does hawkish risk look
like this Wednesday? I'd say the risk
for an extended hold I don't I mean, we
saw in the last meeting that there was a
discussion about the the two-sided risks
and maybe the need for hikes. I don't
think most officials are there right
now, but I I agree that Powell's
comments are going to be less focused on
his view and more about what the
committee's saying. I think he usually
does a pretty good job of representing
the committee, but his views are not
going to be as relevant after this
meeting. I do expect a lot of the
questions from the the various
journalists in there might be more about
him and his outlook, whether he stays on
or not, then versus actual monetary
policy, but he'll do his usual tap dance
around it and be tight-lipped about what
his plans are. Yeah, it'll be more of an
Oprah episode than really an FOMC
meeting. I am curious from your
perspective, though, how you would
respond if there is somebody in at the
Federal Reserve who does not want to
necessarily cut rates and you start to
get fiscal stimulus to try to offset the
potential hit to consumer spending as a
result of what we're seeing in the oil
market.
>> Uh in that situation, you probably see
higher yields. Um if we see more fiscal
stimulus in an in an economy that's
doing okay. I mean, the last two
quarters, little bit choppy, but I think
overall, the labor market's relatively
stable. If we got fiscal stimulus that
then could give a boost to spending, I
think maybe you see yields move up a
little bit from here. I feel like this
market is asleep, the bond market. And I
don't mean in a bad way. I mean,
happily, like on vacation, touching
grass, and taking walks. It feels like,
you know, you could throw everything you
want at this, whether it's issuance from
governments, whether it's potentially a
drama at the Fed, whether it's an oil
price shock, whether it's massive, you
know, a potential capex coming from big
tech. Yeah, everyone's fine. It's just,
you know, basically flatlining. Can you
understand why?
Well, I think overall, the the factors
that we saw coming into the year are
still very much in play. And to your
point, we we we have been very much
range bound right now. The the 10 year
has been between say 4 and a quarter and
4 and a half percent for a handful of
weeks right now. Inflation is still
sticky, fiscal concerns haven't kind of
weighed and we've seen a move up in in
global bond yields. I think the market's
probably looking for some sort of
catalyst right now. I don't know what
that catalyst is, but the idea that
maybe oil spikes even higher to pull
yields up or maybe we start to see
cracks.
>> I'm laughing. A catalyst, you got 15.
Which one I mean, I'm seriously, what
what could actually shake this market
that does seem to be bulletproof?
>> Yeah, I think that's the million-dollar
question. Right now, the market seems to
be very calm. Even the all markets,
stock market, bond markets, about
everything that's going on in the Middle
East right now. I worry that the longer
it goes on, the higher oil prices remain
elevated, which means higher gas prices
here, lots of input prices. That can
weigh on consumer spending, it can weigh
on business We've already seen it weigh
on consumer confidence and business
confidence. I worry that the length of
this results in more downside risks. I
agree that so far that has not come to
fruition, stocks keep going up, credit
spreads remain low, Treasury yields are
in a tight range. I worry that there's
more risks to the downside if this
continues to go on.
>> When it comes to the Fed drama, could we
just sit on this one thing that we do
know is going to happen? The Fed
Inspector General is going to be looking
into the probe. With that hanging over
the Fed's head, could Powell step aside?
That's another million-dollar question,
and we've been talking about that with
our team at Schwab of of how does the a
potential lawsuit for Powell play into
his decision-making, but the short
answer is I I just don't know. He said
it would need to end with transparency
and finality. I've got no idea what he
ultimately does. But by his own metric
that he set for us at the last news
conference, I'm not sure if the events
of the last week met that bar for him to
step aside and move away from the Fed
board.
>> Does he give some sort of new litmus
test for exactly what will be his
characterizations for what could make
him leave?
>> He can maybe massage it a bit and say,
well, since the DOJ is dropping it and I
trust the Fed Inspector General, I'm
happy to move aside and go on retirement
and golfing, etc. But I I do think he
has to offer some clarity at this
meeting given we are 2 and 1/2 weeks
away from when Kevin Warsh will be the
next Fed chair.
>> he takes the off-ramp in the same way
that others have taken the off-ramp
because don't we all want to move
>> on
from this mess and this drama around the
Federal Reserve? What I find amazing is
the market already has. The market
doesn't care. I mean, honestly, it seems
like people are saying, okay, Kevin
Warsh is going to be there at some
point. J. Powell will leave and go on
vacation. Good luck to you. And in the
meantime, we're looking at a Fed that's
basically sidelined. It seems like the
market doesn't care and I think that is
actually really important even with
inflation expectations going forward,
not budging really away from that 2
2.2%. But will the market care if J.
Powell comes to the podium and says, I'm
going to keep my governor seat till
2028? That'll be a lot of drama.
>> I think that makes it more controversial
than it needs to be, which is why I
think, you know, take the off-ramp, head
to the exit. Let's move on. Let's focus
on the data. Data's been okay. Data's
been all right. It's been better than
okay. Jobs data's been really good. ISM
PMIs been fantastic. Park you, Mitch. If
you didn't have you, Mitch, and you
focus on everything else, data's been
good.
>> You know,
if you're a Fed chair and you want to
look back and said, "Mission
accomplished" and things are looking
good, probably the better time to say,
"Okay, I think I'll go I'll go hit the
golf course."
>> Right. I think so. Connie, thank you.
Appreciate it. Keep you out of that.
Connie Martin, at Charles Schwab. Keep
you safe. Less controversy. Move on. We
all just want to move on. I'm pleased
the DOJ has moved on. I hope the Federal
Reserve can just move on with new
leadership that it's going to be
confirmed by the Senate and gets
overwhelming approval by both
establishment figures in the world of
economics.
>> Yeah, I just wonder what will actually
shake this market in any capacity
whatsoever. I mean, what scenario would
actually give this market pause that
either there's going to be a real loss
of Fed independence in some capacity,
whatever that means. People say that it
already has happened on the margins,
whatever. Versus also wondering when
inflation really starts to get on board.
How high is the bar to hike rates again?
[music] And that I think is going to be
an interesting question.
>> That's the most important question. What
does Kevin Warsh stand for? What's his
reaction function? Does he make an
argument to reduce interest rates or is
he open to tighter policy in the future?
They're the kind of things we need to
focus on in the months [music] to come.
Coming up, we'll catch up with Kristen
Bitterly City Wealth. We'll speak to
Olivia Wassenaar of Apollo, Greg Daco of
EY, and Dan Niles of Niles Investment
[music] Management.
You're seeing kind of everyone I think
look to okay, what else can benefit?
[music]
>> didn't have this boom in tech, we would
be looking at a much worse situation.
>> The geopolitical's just not factored
into anything right now.
>> To maintain the optimism, we need to
continue to see [music] earnings coming
through.
>> The stock market's been remarkably
strong and I think it continues to do
very well.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third annual
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your price action and scores look
like this. Four weeks of gains [music]
on the S&P, looking to add to those
gains this morning. Up by another tenth
of 1% on the Nasdaq, just about
unchanged [music] on the S&P 500. Later
this week, a week full of central bank
decisions punctuated by the Federal
Reserve on Wednesday. And through the
week, after the closing bell on
Wednesday, tech earnings pick up in a
big way.
>> Yeah, it's the central bank of the
world, which is big tech. You've got the
G7, all G7 nations reporting when it
comes to the central bank meetings. But
[music] then, 28.8 trillion dollars of
S&P 500 market cap reporting this week.
This [music] really is where all eyes
are. Again, how high is the bar for big
tech given the fact that they've been
the haven place and the place everyone's
been hiding out amid a lot of volatility
at least in headlines. [music]
>> seems very high almost to justify the
rally we've seen. Jim Reid of Deutsche
Bank over the weekend was talking about
the talk of an AI bubble from last
year's receded for now. The powerful
growth story continues to propel the
sector forward while significantly
offsetting macro market [music] concerns
around the war. What if they don't reach
that bar? Does the market then go back
to the concerns of macroeconomics and
what is happening in the conflict?
>> Qualcomm in the pre-market just adding
to that rally for the chip sector. 18
days of record could become day 19.
Qualcomm [music] in the pre-market is up
by 12%. And this comes on the heels of a
discussions or reports of discussions
with OpenAI on a smartphone. This is
interesting on a number of levels.
Qualcomm is specializes in some of the
smartphone components. [music]
They would be working with someone who
designed the iPhone, Jony Ive, formerly
of Apple. And then a real question here
about the monetization of AI, the
commercialization of some of these
products. This gives an opening to the
[music] idea of how products can get
into our world that actually have some
of these details and then I think it's
what
people are getting excited about.
[music]
>> It's been such a crazy run for this
sector. It's just insane. The gains
we've seen. We haven't had a down day
for this month so far, which is crazy.
And then you hear from Jonathan Krinsky
of BTIG just focused on the technicals
that this needs to end [music] in the
equal and opposite direction. That
that's what he's forecasting here. A
major move in the other direction. Yeah,
and ultimately I mean I did get some
messages while he was talking. Someone
called him Cranky Krinsky. I mean there
is a sense that people felt like not I
mean fair enough like just because he
was coming out with a negative
projection but there's this idea that
there could potentially be
>> you can dress that one up, Brooke.
That's pretty gruesome. Okay, but I
don't think so. I think it's important
to show the technicals.
>> [laughter]
>> Now you want to move on? I'll set up the
next hour. I'll do that. All right.
Coming up on the program, lost it. We'll
catch you with Kristen Bidlia City
>> [music]
>> heading into a busy week on Wall Street.
Greg Daco V Y expecting the Fed to hold
steady on interest rates. Dan Niles of
Niles Investment Management previewing
major mega cap tech earnings a little
bit later. Still lost it by the way. We
begin this hour with stocks stalling.
Still lost it at all-time highs and
crude rising. Kristen Bidlia City wealth
writing the following, use volatility as
an opportunity to lean into structural
themes tied to energy independence and
sovereignty. Supply chains for the next
generation of AI implementation and
fiscal spending. Kristen joins us now
for more. Kristen, good morning. Good
morning.
>> Not tying your outlook to this cycle.
What's the reason for that?
Well, I think
Okay, so if we look at where where the
market's trading right now, there are a
lot of comments around at all-time
highs, can this sustain? The reality of
it is that being close to all-time highs
is actually normal. That the market is
trading generally 50% of the time within
5% of an all-time high. So, we have to
look through to the actual earnings and
fundamentals and say, can that support
that? Which is why I think this is a
monster week. We need to say, okay, if
earnings continue to grow, we've had
eight consecutive quarters of
double-digit earnings growth in the US
market. If that sustains, then certainly
this investment is going to sustain and
then we're going to see the market climb
higher. We hear these kind of words a
lot. Anchor yourself to structural
themes, secular tailwinds. I do wonder
how cyclical some of these secular
stories are, which might not make sense,
but let me pick a single name. Say Say
Meta. Meta's a great example of that.
That's quite a cyclical company,
dependent on a lot of ad spending, and I
wonder how well it stands up later this
week. Yeah, so if you broaden it out to
the let's call it Mag 7, Great 8, Elite
8, I think we just have to go back to
this this earning story and then say,
okay, these hyperscalers and where
they're investing, do they have the
money to continue to do that? So, you
have one part of the equation that's
that, then you lean into the fact,
where's this money going? I think that
was something we were talking about at
the beginning of the year that we seem
to ignore entirely. It wasn't about the
war in Iran. It was all about where is
this money? Is it too much? What is the
ROI? People are holding companies
accountable for that ROI, but we have to
remember that's flowing through into the
economy whether it's infrastructure,
whether it's energy. So a lot of these
kind of secular growth trends, we want
to follow the flows. Russ Koesterich of
BlackRock earlier was saying that the
market seems to have moved on from
punishing some of the big tech names for
announcing some of the big spending
plans. Do you think that that's true
that we're going to see that this
earning cycle as well? I think you're
either on one you're either on one side
or the other side of this trade. On one
side you're saying, "Okay, we're
becoming impatient and we want to see
the ROI." On the other side of of the
equation, it's actually are we in early
innings? And I think the truth of it is
you have these hyperscaler companies who
have strong balance sheets, yet they
they've started to use debt to be able
to finance a lot of this. However, they
are continuing to deliver on earnings,
funding all of this investment, and then
I'm in the camp of this is really early
innings when we look at the productivity
gains and what this could mean, not just
this quarter or this week, but really
looking out to 2030 and beyond. Do you
see any scope for some ramifications
from the war in the Middle East given
the fact that there's a question about
helium, about
chip transportation, around security
issues? I mean, how much do you think
that could bleed into some of these
earnings reports that we get?
So I think this is something when when I
was talking about what the market was
talking about in Q1, then the war in
Iran, the market seems very uni-focused
that you can only have one narrative at
once. And so right now we're not
discounting any of that. That I think
what the market is looking at is what is
the probability of a re-escalation and
they're completely the market's
completely ignoring that this is
something that could drag on for an
undetermined amount of time. So what I
would say to anyone who is worried about
that, you have to make sure that you're
diversified in your portfolios and you
have to make sure that you're taking
advantage of hedging strategies cuz we
could see some volatility if we don't
have a resolution to this conflict.
>> you like in terms of diversifiers? So uh
I actually very traditional
diversifiers. So I'm going to sound very
boring in in this response. But when we
look at fixed income, staying on the
short end of the curve, intermediate
duration, high in quality, the duration
of our fixed income portfolios is
averaging around five five and a half
right now. But I also think staying kind
of on the short end of the curve and
cash and cash equivalents, you're
getting a decent yield there right now.
So I think that's an important part of
the portfolio. I think gold as a ballast
to portfolios, that's something we've
been talking about for quite some time.
It's not a huge position. It didn't
really work in the beginning of the
conflict.
>> work at the beginning of the conflict,
but it also ran up so much and it was
such a substantial um run with a lot of
retail participation. So some of that
was deleveraging, shaking out some of
the the broader bid and chasing that
trade. But as a solid core position, I
think it's absolutely makes sense.
>> Why do you think it will start to work
again? What are the forces that will
generate returns? So I I think there's a
a couple of things. One, continued kind
of central bank buying. We've seen that.
Diversification away from the dollar. We
still see a little bit of that activity
as well. And again, it's not one of
those things where we're saying it's a
bullish play on gold. It's a portfolio
diversifier. It's funny how many
conversations we've had 2 hours and 10
minutes into the program and hardly
talked about central banks. We've talked
about the future of the Fed with regards
to Chairman Powell versus Chairman
Walsh, but not really talked about it as
a relevant factor in the outlook for the
equity market. Is it?
I think rates are certainly a relevant
factor for the outlook of the equity
market, but I think the equity market is
also saying, "Okay, we're going to get
used to what could be a higher than
pre-pandemic rate environment, a higher
than pre-pandemic inflation environment,
and we're not going back to those
levels. So we have to start valuing
companies in line with that and and
really kind of pricing out rate cuts for
this year. I think there's like another
bull case though for the US equity
market that we're not talking about,
which is a supply demand component. So,
we can talk about fundamentals, we can
talk about earnings growth, but when we
look at the supply demand factor, there
is a lot less equity than there was
before in terms of companies staying
private longer, share buybacks. There's
been a de-equitization of the market and
then you look at the demand side. The
demand side is also very, very strong in
terms of all of the new participants
that have come in. So, you have another
factor of people really eager to get
into this market and buy. Given all of
that retrenchment, does it make sense
that people are talking about tight
central bank policy at the same time
that you have a re-equitization of the
market with all the IPOs planned for
later this year?
Great question. I think time will tell.
I I think the re-equitization of all of
the IPOs, we need to actually see them
come to market. We have seen that pick
up in activity overall. That will be
quite healthy and it's actually another
kind of catalyst for market activity and
action that we saw on the back of bank
earnings. A lot of activity not just
from the trading side, but also the deal
making side, which is net positive.
>> Kristen, good to see you. Kristen
Bitterly City Wow, thank you for being
here. We could see some major IPOs later
this year. SpaceX, OpenAI, Anthropic.
Yeah, and it changes the dynamic that
Kristen was talking about where it had
been a shrinking pool of equities with
all the buybacks and people saying
private for longer. Suddenly it's going
to be a massive expansion with the
biggest IPOs we've ever seen. Do people
rise to the occasion and say it's a
buying opportunity does it become a
potential technical headwind? Most
people seem to see it's the former not
the latter.
>> Savita Subramanian at Bank of America
believe in this might be a headwind for
the market later this year. We'll see.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie. Hey John, thank you. A
31-year-old man carrying multiple guns
and knives charged a Secret Service
checkpoint at the White House
Correspondents Dinner Saturday night.
One officer who was wearing a
bulletproof vest was shot and taken to a
hospital.
>> [music]
>> The acting Attorney general says the
suspect was targeting members of the
Trump administration.
Senator Thom Tillis is ready to advance
Kevin Warsh's nomination as the next
Federal Reserve chair. Tillis says the
Justice Department's decision to end a
criminal investigation into current
chair Jerome Powell removes [music] a
threat to the Central Bank's
independence.
United Airlines CEO Scott Kirby says the
company's pursuit of merger [music]
talks with American Airlines is over. In
a statement, Kirby said he approached
American about exploring a combination,
but they declined to engage. The CEO
said he saw combining as a chance to
create the best airline in the world for
customers. That is your Bloomberg
[music] Brief, John. Vanya, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Vanya in 30
minutes time. Up next on the program The
Morning Call's Plus, we'll catch up with
Olivia of Apollo on opportunities in
reliable energy. From New York City this
morning, good morning.
>> [music]
>> We are still four weeks before we hit
the peak demand season, and this is what
likely has been keeping a cap on prices,
just a lack of demand, both from demand
destruction because of higher prices,
but also the normal seasonal demand
destruction that we see in February,
March, and early April. But, that's
about to change. Higher for longer,
certainly through the rest of the summer
into the third quarter. That was Stephen
Schork of The Schork Group. You see
higher for longer in the futures curve
throughout this morning. You've seen it
building now for a while. So, take the
front month of the futures curve, we'll
take WTI, we'll take Brent. Check it out
this morning. Brent's around 106, WTI at
95. Brent up every single day last week
and up again this morning, but it's
further out where things are getting
more and more interesting. Not just
later in the summer, but towards the
back end of this year. You've now got
Goldman this morning out with a report
saying they now anticipate the quarter,
the fourth quarter will average $90.
Yeah, and that's $30 above where they
thought before the war began. At $60,
that was the expectation. This to me is
the more interesting [music] aspect, and
this is the boiling the frog aspect of
this conflict. The longer it goes on,
the more people are saying there are
going to be structural deficiencies that
are going to be hard to fill over the
longer term, and do mean that oil prices
are not going to go back to where they
were potentially [music] anywhere in the
near term. Well, Goldman is talking
about extreme inventory drawdowns if the
street of rumors continues where we are
now, this prolonged shutdown. This is
why so many people I talk to feel like
the market is broken because what you
see on your screen is not matching up to
really how dire it is when it comes to
the physicality.
>> It's not upending this equity market
run, that's for sure. Four weeks of
gains on the S&P 500 this morning, just
about unchanged. On the Nasdaq, we're up
a tenth of 1%. Semi's 18-day [music]
record daily winning streak could become
19. Thank you, Qualcomm. Qualcomm up by
double digits in the [music] pre-market
on a rumor, a story of a potential
tie-up with OpenAI, up 11% this morning.
>> Yeah, and a discussion about creating
some sort of smartphone imbued with AI.
I want to know more details about this.
This is actually really interesting on
two fronts. So, number one, how much
this fuels another round of the
semiconductor that is tied more to the
smartphone product, which is Qualcomm.
[music] And two, what does this do for
Apple if it is true, given the fact that
the person behind this is Jony Ive, the
person who designed the iPhone, and the
fact that Apple has a new CEO who is
going to have to take that company into
the future at a time when a lot of
people have said they've been somewhat
behind on the AI trend. So, to me, this
actually is a particularly interesting
report that I want to get more details
on.
>> Not enough attention on that Thursday
report coming from Apple. So, looking
forward to their earnings later on this
week. That's some of the price action,
some of the themes this morning. Let's
get you some money calls. First up,
Mizuho downgrading Adobe to neutral,
seeing [music] intensifying competition.
That stock is down by 1.7%. Your second
call from Piper Sandler raising its
price target on Blackstone, noting
management's positivity on IPO activity
for the year. Stock just about unchanged
so far today.
>> [music]
>> And finally, BNP Paribas downgrading
Givaudan over to neutral. That stock's
had a massive run, predicting more
difficulty sustaining growth momentum.
[music] That name is down this morning
by a little more than 1%. Let's talk
about the ongoing closure of the Strait
of Hormuz, sending fuel [music] prices
higher and highlighting the need for
reliable energy. Olivia Wassenaar,
global head of the Apollo Infrastructure
Group, writing, "We see rising need for
investment across midstream, LNG, and
power infrastructure, areas where
private capital [music] is increasingly
playing an important role." Olivia joins
us now for more. Olivia, good morning.
Good to see you. Good morning. Thanks
for having me back.
>> Is it fair to say, and I think it's
important to touch base with you on this
issue, that this shock in the Middle
East is not upending investment, it's
accelerating it? It is. I mean, I I
think we're all looking at a few things.
We're looking at redundancy, right? Um
we're looking at the, you know, the
current infrastructure in the Middle
East and maybe where there are gaps,
right? Um you're looking at things
around um existing pipelines. Uh how do
we max out existing pipelines? How do we
think about where there's potential for
new pipelines? Can you restart old
pipelines?
Um people are beginning to talk about
things like rail again. So, I I do think
in the Middle East there's this real
focus on redundancy. In the rest of the
world, we're looking at where can we
compensate? We announced a deal last
week for a large Canadian gas
infrastructure uh platform. Um we
believe Canada is a really attractive
market right now, especially if you look
at what's going on with Canada LNG and
access to Europe, uh access to Asia, um
really uh sort of a big part of the
broader sort of value chain there. So,
we are very actively investing in other
parts of the energy infrastructure
globally. Well, let's go through the
global backdrop and the deals right now.
You mentioned Canada. We had EDF over in
the UK, RWE in Germany, offshore wind
Orsted, I believe, as well. I don't want
you to pick a favorite baby, but right
now
is there a theme that really gets your
interest out of all of those right now,
of those deals that you think are the
ones to watch?
Um we we've really been investing
heavily in Europe. Um we do see this
theme around making sure we're giving
again real redundancy and growth in
European power infrastructure. Um so we
started uh RWE around the grid. Um we
looked at EDF around nuclear. And now
we're really focused on offshore winds
uh with the Orsted deal. I mean, this is
a tremendous project. If you look at the
number of homes it's going to power uh
across the UK, it's really tremendous.
Um and we're also thinking a little bit
about, you know, how do you give really
reliable long-term power to supply to
areas that have previously been really
dependent on oil from and oil and gas
from places like Russia and the Middle
East. You have a great lens because in
having these discussions and these
investments, you have to work with
policy makers pretty closely to
understand exactly what their appetite
is and getting clearance, etc., and and
permitting. Have you noticed a change
when it comes to Europe in particular as
they try to accelerate some of their
reliability
given the supply shocks that have come
to them from all angles over the past
couple of years? Absolutely. I mean, we
saw it sort of the first start of this
in 2022 around the Ukraine crisis,
right? And that was the first time you
saw sort of a pan-European focus on,
okay, how do we make sure we're really
more prepared longer term? Now with
what's going on in the Middle East, you
had a big announcement out of Europe
last week saying, we've got to focus on
two things. One, short-term around how
do we really help the consumers? And
then long-term around how do we look at
uh better permitting, faster permitting,
how do we speed up electrification, how
do we speed up things like batteries
which are going to help smooth out
intermittency, right? So there's there's
really such a big focus within Europe on
how do we make sure that we're taking
this reliance away from other areas of
the world? The fact that everybody wants
to build at the same time makes things a
bit complicated. How much are are you
experiencing shortages of things like
turbines and engines and you know, the
actual pipes and things of that nature
given the fact that everyone is trying
to do this at the same time
at a time of potential supply chain
constraints because of the Strait of
Hormuz being blocked? Absolutely. I
mean, it's a real issue and it's
something that we're all grappling with.
All right, if in the US, for example, if
you do not have
your sort of components around a new gas
plant supplied,
you're looking at 5 years, right? That's
a long period of time to get to to to
really get the new components in place.
So, this supply chain is just
compounding, and when we look at what
we're going to see around the rebuild in
the Middle East whenever this conflict
is over, that is only going to add to
the need for some of these components.
Every single Middle East country is
coming out now basically saying we want
the Saudis have. We want an East-West
pipeline. We want to be able to bypass
the Strait of Hormuz. Can you get the
appetite for that kind of investment
when Iran and the IRGC still remain a
threat?
I do think you're going to need to see
some stability, but you saw it out of
the EU last week saying, "Hey, how can
we help with investment in the region to
really again help this redundancy
piece?" When you look at pipelines,
that's helpful for crude, but when you
look at things like refined products
like jet fuel, for example,
and LNG, these are things that are not
going through pipelines. So, we need to
think of other ways to be able to
transport these and really ensure that
security. To get that confidence though,
it's not even just for oil and gas.
There's all this money put to data
centers, and people now are talking
about them having to go underground. Do
you still see the optimism for people
wanting to be invested heavily in this
region? I do. And the offer on the data
center side was very clear for a while,
right? I mean, if you look at it, there
was cheap power in the Middle East,
there was abundancy of land, there was
lots of local capital, and for many
years this sort of real perceived
political stability. You've sort of
taken the last point of that off. I do
think you still see the other components
there, but there is going to be a little
bit of confidence coming back to the
region before you see people really
wanting to reinvest in this AI
phenomenon.
>> have to worry too much about the
political cycle in certain parts of the
Middle East and that's a different
conversation. With the Europe maybe you
do and with the US as well. How relevant
is the political cycle to some of these
decisions? Um you see a lot around for
example renewable energy, right? And
we've certainly seen I mean I've been
investing in renewable energy for 25
years. You've seen real sort of booms
and busts over time. Um what I will say
is
it begins to be tied more into uh
security than it ever has before. I mean
again as we look at Europe, right? This
sort of dependency whether is on Russia
or on the Middle East and all of a
sudden looking and saying, what can we
do internally? What resources do we
have? We have sun, we have wind, right?
These are things we can continue to
build up internally. We can look at
electrification so we're again less
reliant on these commodities coming from
other parts of the world.
>> think there is a bigger focus now on
abundance? I just wanted to what extent
the conversation really has changed.
Lisa mentioned that. It seems to me that
everything's become very polarized that
for certain political groups
particularly in Europe they believe
everything that is fossil fuels or
touches fossil fuels is bad and
everything that's renewable is fantastic
under any situation and any circumstance
and for whatever reason the other side
sees it completely differently. Do you
think we have got some kind of moment
here where we can just accept we need
something from both worlds. We need
abundance. I think that's absolutely
spot on. You right now you're looking at
a crisis, right? And everyone is trying
to figure out how how do we fix this,
right? If you look at Europe, Europe has
spent about 25 billion over the last few
months since the war started to get the
same amount of energy supply they had
before. So they're looking at it saying,
gosh, you know, rather than making this
highly politicized, let's figure out
again how we can have homegrown energy
supplies so that we're not dealing with
these massive price shocks going
forward.
>> And energy bills have been moving in the
wrong direction, particularly in places
like the UK. Yeah, and that's the reason
why you see, for example, some pension
funds that previously couldn't invest in
the fossil fuel industry suddenly
allowed to invest in the fossil fuel
industry because they're realizing,
"Wait a second, you know, we kind of
can't can't deal with all of these
things at the same time. We need the
returns."
>> Made some stupid investment decisions or
rather stupid policy decisions in Europe
for quite a while.
Going forward, how much does this change
exactly what this looks like, and how
quickly can you enact some of these
things? I think that the supply chain
constraints are actually a really,
really thing. So, I was talking to
someone who is building a power plant,
and they said, "We can't get the
engines. We can't get the things
>> GE Vernova
I mean, that's the main constraint for
GE Vernova is that they can't get the
materials quickly enough to build all of
the engines and the turbines that people
want. When you're dealing with that kind
of issue, how quickly can you become
reliant on yourself? And that, I think,
is going to become increasingly
political.
>> And there's a rush for the whole world
to get their hands on the same stuff.
When it comes to Europe, though, the own
goals. Remember, they restarted coal and
wind down nuclear when Russia invaded
Ukraine. Nuclear, at one point,
supplying 20 percent 25% actually more
of Germany's electricity. Chrissy,
Olivia, good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Thank you so much. Thanks
for the update. Olivia Wassenaar there
of Apollo. Up next, Greg Daco of EY on
the path ahead for the Federal Reserve.
Plus, Yohai has your morning movers.
Another look at Qualcomm [music] this
morning. That stock in the premarket up
by close to 11%.
Equity futures right now in the S&P
pulling back from all-time highs. We're
negative by about a tenth of 1%. [music]
Similar move on the Nasdaq 100 this
morning. Within the Nasdaq, some major
moves, particularly from the likes of
Qualcomm. Let's get you an update on
some single names, including that one
with your morning movers Yohai has more.
Hey Yohai. Hi John, we start with
Qualcomm as you said shares are soaring
nearly 11% in the pre-market on this
report that it is working with open AI
on a smartphone. Something that we know
open AI has been interested in ever
since it acquired Apple legend Jony
[music] Ive's startup last year. But
John Chrisco to you all earlier flagging
a warning sign in semis [music] tied to
this name saying that when even laggards
like Qualcomm start catching a bid it
can signal the rally [music]
is close to its final innings. But for
now it is going strong and it is showing
up in names like Micron and Sandisk both
up in the pre-market after a bullish
call from analysts over at Melius
research. [music] They initiated
coverage for both with a buy rating
saying that there is no denying that
memory is becoming a core part of the AI
[music] story and they could see demand
for years to come. And we end on Verizon
which just had earnings. Shares are up
3.3%
in the pre-market. It was a beat and a
raise over there. The largest US
wireless carrier posting a gain in phone
subscribers [music]
surprising the market which was
expecting a loss. Also this showing that
there is early traction under a new CEO
that just took the helm 6 months ago.
John. Yohai [music] thank you. Thanks
for this morning. Looking ahead to a big
week ahead including lots of tech
earnings coming on Wednesday and
Thursday. Also on Wednesday [music]
Wednesday afternoon a Fed rate decision
and chairman Powell news conference.
Bloomberg's Mike McKee joins us now with
a preview. Good morning Mike. Morning
John. Can you believe we're here?
This week Jay Powell's last news
conference as Fed chair probably. It
looks that way after the developments
over the weekend. Tuesday we start with
the Fed meeting and then on Wednesday we
get the decision at 2:00 p.m. and at
2:30 Powell's news conference. And
because Kevin Warsh is likely to be
approved by the Senate Banking Committee
earlier that morning, it would mean that
there are not going to be any questions
about who's going to be chair pro tem.
But it very well could be that the first
question asked is are you going to stay
on as a governor because the Fed's not
expected to do anything. Going to leave
rates alone. There's no summary of
economic projections and there is no dot
plot. The question then becomes when
does Warsh get actually confirmed by the
Senate? They have to wait 24 hours under
Senate rules. So it could be Thursday,
but they've got an awful lot going on on
the Senate floor including trying to get
the DHS funding through the
reconciliation bill. And so it may be a
week or two or longer before they get
there, but he should be confirmed by the
15th. It's also the Central Bank week
around the world. Celebrations in Canada
and Japan, the Bank of England, European
Central Bank, four big central banks
including the Fed, five central banks
and none of them at this point expected
to do anything because we're back to
talking about what's Donald Trump going
to do about Iran and nobody knows. So
for now everybody is on hold. We do have
a big back loaded week of economic data.
Might help the Fed make a decision, but
it all comes after the meeting on
Tuesday. We do get consumer confidence,
but Wednesday
things that don't matter as much trade
housing starts durable goods. Thursday
though income spending and the PCE
inflation index expected to rise because
of oil prices. The
employment cost index. They want to know
what's happening with wages in this
situation and first quarter GDP. Fourth
quarter GDP revised down to just a 7/10
gain. How much more do we get in the
first quarter? And of course jobless
claims and then we kick off May on
Friday with ISM manufacturing. A lot of
interest in
whether AI is still propping that up. So
a lot going on this week. I'm not sure
at the end of the week how much
different things will look, but it is
going to be very interesting, especially
to say goodbye to a guy who's been chair
of the Fed for 8 years.
>> talk about whether we're actually going
to say goodbye to him. As Fed chair,
yes, but on the board, a different
question, Mike. Transparency and
finality.
The chairman's own words. Do you think
we met the bar for that
at the DOJ? Yeah, I don't think so
because Jeanine Pirro appended her
comments by saying she would feel free
to uh
refile criminal charges if there is
anything in the IG report. And we know
since there was nothing in the first
time she was looking at this, that she
might just make something up. So, uh for
Powell, I suspect he will want to stay
on until the Inspector General's report
is out, at least. That could come
quickly because they've been working on
it since last July. And maybe he wants
to stay on through the election to see
what happens with the control of the
House and Senate and what legal jeopardy
he might find himself under. Mike McKee,
thank you. Looking forward to the news
conference and your questions that will
be presented to the chairman Wednesday
afternoon. Greg of EY writes in this,
"The Fed will keep rates unchanged this
week." That's the boring stuff. "Even
once Worsh is confirmed." That's the fun
stuff. "Powell may remain on the board
as governor to preserve a degree of
institutional continuity." Greg joins us
now for more. Greg, good morning.
>> Good morning, John. What do you mean by
that line, "institutional continuity"?
Is it needed? I think so. I think it's
very much needed at a point where we are
facing financial difficulties in terms
of what's happening in the Middle East,
where there are questions around the
direction of economic travel, uh and
where this type of transition in terms
of Fed leadership is likely to carry a
number of potential institutional
changes.
We know Fed chair Powell has been very
clear about the need and the desire to
preserve that institutional credibility.
And and at a time when there's going to
be likely increased political influence,
even if not direct, indirect in terms of
the way the Fed is conducting policy,
that's going to be critical, and I think
that's going to be the key reason why
Fed Chair Powell says that he will stay
on as governor for the foreseeable
future.
>> Do you think Wednesday's the appropriate
time and forum to communicate that? I
think he will distance himself from
communicating that at the press
conference. We saw it last time around
when he was very clear as to what he
would do should there not be a nominated
Fed Chair to replace him. He would stay
on pro tem, but the key question as to
whether he stays on through the end of
his governor chair term, which lasts
until the end of January 2028, is likely
to be an open question, which we will he
likely communicate via a statement that
will be made apart from the press
conference. You said that this is a
particularly important part for the
central bank given potential
disruptions. Every market analyst that
comes on seems to think very much the
other way that central banks are almost
the most least relevant they've been in
years, and that frankly they just need
to remain on hold and everything else
will will do the work for them. Why do
you disagree? That's the policy angle,
and that's very right in terms of how
policy is conducted. Policy is not going
to change much. We heard it from Mike
McKee in terms of the different policy
statements that will come out from the
different central banks around the
world. We're going to see most central
banks beyond hold because we're facing a
supply shock, and central banks don't
like to deal with that. So, the best way
to deal with it is essentially not do
anything in terms of policy. But, when
it comes to the institutional framework,
when it comes to a Fed Chair nominee
that has said that inflation is a
choice, I think that's a different type
of question. It's a policy question.
It's it's an institutional question,
excuse me, as to how the Fed will
conduct monetary policy in that
environment. Now, we know there's an
FOMC committee. We know it's not just
one person deciding on policy. But, I
think when it comes to the potential for
influence on the Fed's structure, on how
the Fed is organized, on how the Fed
sees any type of forecast on whether
inflation is a choice, those are all
questions that are institutional, and I
think Fed Chair Powell won't want to
preserve some institutionality in terms
of how he guides policy.
>> What you're saying is really interesting
and is something that I haven't heard
before, which is the reframing of the
Federal Reserve and the reshaping of it
that a lot of people say Kevin Warsh
plans to do. He says himself he plans to
do shrinking the balance sheet and using
Fed policy a little bit differently that
Fed chair Jay Powell when he leaves as
that position will want to stay in his
governor to have a say in exactly how
the Federal Reserve gets reshaped. Is
that correct?
>> That's absolutely correct. If you
remember in 1948, very few of us do, but
in 1948, Fed chair Eccles stayed on the
Fed board as a governor and he stayed on
for 3 years. Why? Because he wanted to
ensure Fed independence. And during the
war and after the war the Fed was
pressured to buy government bonds to
finance the war. That led that him
staying on the board for another 3 years
led to the Fed Treasury Accord, which
gave the Fed today's independent
framework. I think Powell will want to
do the same in terms of preserving Fed
independence. 1948 was a very different
time. We were coming out of the war. Was
there more agreement around that than
now? And a lot of people would view it
as much more controversial. Well, I
think the Fed independence is very
important in terms of what it does to
Treasury yields. And we are in in this
environment where interest rates are
remaining higher. I think one of the key
characteristics of today's financial
market is that despite the Fed having
eased monetary policy for the past 2
years, we continue to see long-term
rates higher than they were when the Fed
started to ease. And it's not just a US
story. It's a Canada story. It's a
European story where long-term rates are
staying higher. I think we want to
preserve the risk of this type of
situation where there is a sentiment of
political influence on the Fed that
pressures up long-term rates and anytime
there is some kind of shock like the
Middle East shock, we see further rises
in long-term rates.
>> Powell stays, doesn't he look political?
He doesn't look political in the sense
that he's staying on as a governor and
while it's not been done
>> But that's not president.
He'd be breaking precedent of the
Federal Reserve. Yes, but he'd be
staying on as he is allowed to do as a
governor. So, it's not necessarily
political in the sense that he's doing
something that has a political
motivation. He's been very clear about
his intentions to to stay on the Fed and
avoid any type of political influence on
the Fed. So, staying on is not
necessarily a political move in that it
prevents any type of political or
perceived political influence.
>> Doesn't that get confusing for market
participants if J. Powell, governor,
comes out and gives speeches while Kevin
Warsh, now chairman, is supposed to be
leading that communication effort?
>> Potentially. I mean, there is going to
be communication issues, but we've heard
from nominee Kevin Warsh that he wants
to reduce the amount of communication.
He wants to have more discretion on
policy making when it comes to decision
at the Fed. So, I think having another
voice at the Fed that preserves that
stability in terms of the institutional
framework is not necessarily a bad thing
for market participants. If you think
about it, there is a risk that we have
less communication, less transparency,
less forward guidance, and more
anticipation of what might happen in an
environment where perhaps we're going to
see AI-driven productivity growth
leading to lower inflation, which is the
the Kevin Warsh's main argument in terms
of easing monetary policy. So, I think
it preserves some stability.
>> are good. The consequences are unknown.
That's kind of where I'm at right now. I
understand the intentions behind it, but
it could create a dependency issue.
The thing that I don't quite understand
with the chairman, and I hope someone
would ask him in the news conference,
the things that he's worried about
aren't priced in this market at all.
Lisa's talked about this. Inflation
expectations have been really well
anchored throughout all of this. So,
either Chairman Powell's really off base
or the market's priced very badly
because I don't think inflation
expectations are anchored because they
believe Chairman Powell's staying around
forever. I think they're just anchored
because they believe in the
institutional resilience of the Federal
Reserve.
Is someone getting something wrong here?
Perhaps, but let's also take a look at
the Middle East conflict and where oil
is pricing in terms of the financial
pricing and where the real barrels are
being priced. I mean, that's another
major disconnect in terms of how
financial markets are anticipating the
Middle East conflict will evolve. So, I
think we have to be a little bit careful
with the pricing because there is always
going to be some institutional
credibility. I mean, remember, this is
the FOMC. It's not just one person
deciding on policy, deciding on the
institutional framework. It's a
consortium of individuals that come up
with a consensus as to policy, as to the
institutional framework. I think the
fear right now, and this is a a
mathematical calculation in terms of how
this will play out, is that we end up
with a situation where we have more
governors that are essentially Trump
nominees and that do not hide away from
this political influence in reshaping
how the Fed is structured. So, it's not
necessarily an on-off type of bet. It's
a There are this many odds that we may
see the situation where we have more
Trump nominees that lean in a certain
direction in terms of shaping how the
balance sheet process is conducted, how
the institutional framework is conducted
in terms of communication, in terms of
potentially the 2% target. A number of
things are on the table right now. This
was thoughtful. Greg, appreciate your
time. Thank you. Greg Daco there of EY.
Equity futures slightly softer, we're
down a 10th of 1% on the S&P with an
update on news worldwide with your
Bloomberg Brief. Bonnie Quinn has more.
Hey, Bonnie. Hey, John. Thank [music]
you. Iran's foreign minister is meeting
with Russian President Vladimir Putin in
St. Petersburg as talks with the US
remain at an impasse. Iran has signaled
it might accept an interim deal where it
reopens the Strait of Hormuz in exchange
for Washington ending its blockade of
Iranian ports.
Eli Lilly has agreed to a $2.3 billion
cash deal to buy Akcea Therapeutics.
Lilly is ramping up its efforts to build
a portfolio of breakthrough cancer
therapies. This follows a $7 billion
deal Lilly reached last week for cancer
research startup Loxo Oncology
Therapeutics.
For you're joining your next trip to JFK
Airport, some exciting news may
potentially lift your spirits. [music]
Aviation startup Joby is planning to fly
electric air taxis between JFK and
Midtown Manhattan. The plans are
described as
>> [music]
>> 100 times quieter than helicopters and
if all goes well, passenger flights
could begin as soon as the second half
of the year.
That is your Bloomberg Brief, John. I
only thank you. Appreciate the update.
Up next, we'll set you up for a busy
week ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Dan Niles of Niles Investment Management
with [music] a preview of big tech
earnings from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> This sort of price appreci- appreciation
um is vulnerable to a near-term
correction. The fact that we've seen a a
40 uh percent move in the last um couple
weeks in some of these names, it's
likely to give back a large portion of
that. Doesn't mean we're going in a bear
market for semis, but um I would expect
a pretty good retracement um you know,
once this kind of blow-off completes
itself. That's one view. That view is
Jonathan Krinsky's of BTIG on a record
run in the chip sector and why he thinks
it's going to correct in equal and
opposite fashion. Equity futures this
morning negative by 10th of 1% on the
S&P 500 just about unchanged on the
Nasdaq. Heading into this week and what
a week it's stacking up to be. This is
your week ahead in our trading diary.
Taking place a little bit later on this
afternoon, President Donald Trump
meeting with King Charles at the White
House. Tomorrow, earnings from UPS and
JetBlue. JetBlue gets a bit more
interesting
>> [music]
>> given American Airlines has dropped out
of the race to be acquired by United
Airlines. United still might be
interested. We'll talk about that
through the week. Wednesday, a Fed rate
decision followed by Chairman Powell
news conference. We'll also get a Senate
Banking Committee vote on Kevin Walsh at
some point in the week, hopefully. Plus
earnings from Amazon, Alphabet,
Microsoft, and Meta. Thursday, another
round of jobless claims, core PCE, and
results from Apple. Yeah, look, big
tech, first and foremost, is going to be
the main event for this week, given the
fact that this entire rally, this uh
record rally that we've seen has been
predicated on results being really good
and announcements. I do wonder whether
we get some interesting political
intrigue. And then I actually mentioned
in the data, I know, call me crazy, but
I want to see if inflation is ticking up
and if wages are ticking up as well.
Torsten Slok of Apollo putting out a
note this morning saying, "If you look
under the hood, wages are starting to
pick up. They're creeping higher." So,
listening to you. Yes. Ask for a pay
rise.
Every single time, that's what you
should do. Yeah, wage price spiral.
Personally, John's John's result. Better
than the opposite, right?
>> 100%. The worst they can say is no.
Exactly. Exactly.
Okay.
>> Wage price spirals, the only person who
has a problem, the only people who have
problems with wage price spirals are
economists. No one else, you'll never
find anyone else that has a problem with
that. That's for sure. Let's talk about
tech results. This is from Dan Niles of
Niles Investment Management writing, "I
believe all of them will beat
estimates." Expecting accelerating
AI-related hyperscale revenue driven by
the surge in agentic workloads, which is
just beginning. Dan joins us now for
more. Dan, appreciate your time. I want
to start with a sector that you know
better than most, and that's the chip
sector and this 18-day record run that
we've seen. Dan, why do you believe the
exuberance is rational?
Well, I think if you go back to the AI
cycle, the first couple of years it was
all about spending money on training,
then last year was on these chat-based
AIs.
But, what you saw at the end of November
of last year was
um this product come out called Claude
bot that then morphed into open claw on
January 30th, and that's the beginning
of a genetic AI, and that requires 10 to
100 times more tokens than what you had
with these chat-based AIs. So, if you
need that many more tokens
to perform that, you've got another big
uplift in
demand from that. And you saw an
indication of that last week with
Intel's results and how well it's done.
And I've written about that starting
back in March on how microprocessors was
the next next bottleneck because a
genetic AI required all this
orchestration. If you, Jonathan, say,
"Hey, go to the SEC website, pull this
data, go to Bloomberg, pull this other
data, go to, you know, Yahoo Finance,
pull this other data, and then put it
all in an Excel spreadsheet." That's a
lot of different API calls, a lot of
different things you want it to do, and
so the bottlenecks keep switching, but
it's also a ton more tokens versus just
asking it a basic question. So, I think
that's why you've got another surge
coming in the chips sector. And
obviously, there's going to be some
pullback, right? You had 18 up days over
which the semiconductor index peak to
trough was up 49% 47% on closing basis.
If you look at the other streaks, there
were four of them between 2014 and 2017.
They ranged from 10 consecutive up days
to 15. The gain was between 8 to 9% not
47. So, you know, will you get some
pullback? Sure, 5 to 10% easily see
that, but I think the chip sector
probably ends the year higher than where
it is right now. Dan, would you agree
with Russ Koestrich of BlackRock who
came on earlier and said he thinks it's
going to be a different kind of reaction
in markets to any CapEx plans announced
by some of the big tech names that it
frankly will be rewarded again rather
than punished.
Well, he's going against what we just
saw last week. I mean, if you look at
Tesla, the stock was up in the after
market. Remember, Tesla beat the
revenues, they beat the EPS,
and then when on the call they said,
"Yeah, we're going to spend 25 billion
in CapEx, not 20 billion." The stock
then rolled over from being up to down,
and I think it finished the week down
somewhere around close to 5% or so. In a
in a solid week for the market overall.
So, that gives you kind of a hint of how
the market's thinking about this, which
is it cares about cash flow. And you
just saw it with one of the magnificent
seven. So, that's you know, there's a
whole slew of risks. So, the on the one
hand, I think all these companies are
going to beat the March quarter. The
problem is the guidance, which is why I
don't particularly want to have much
involvement with any of the names
because would it surprise you to hear
how close rates on big deals were a
problem? Because don't forget the market
was at a 52-week low, I think, on March
30th. And so, for some these software
companies, you could have an issue with
that. You saw that with ServiceNow.
Semiconductor prices skyrocketing
impacting margins going forward. Oil
impacting shipping costs for companies
that care about that, like with an
Amazon. Or ad budgets, where you hear
either Google or Meta saying something
like, "Well, you know, because of the
uncertainty, these big consumer packaged
good companies have pulled back a little
bit." Or the pull forward in demand
because prices have gone up so much.
That impacting the second half of the
year, and you heard that from Intel with
relation to their non-AI related
businesses. So, these are all things
that, yes, are they all going to put up
great numbers? Absolutely. Could you
have a real problem with guidance that
causes all these stocks on average to go
down on the other side of it?
By the way, these five, they went down
1% on average after they reported
results the next day.
>> Yeah.
The prior quarter. And so, that's
something you need to think about. And
after this massive run, I really am
going to step away from most of these
with maybe the exception of, you know,
Google, which is my favorite. Dan, just
curious quickly here, how much do you
see one particular name as more exposed
to some of these potential risks, in
particular higher oil and shipping
costs?
Yeah, I mean, I I think it varies,
right? With things like higher oil,
obviously that matters for Amazon's
logistics business more. Memory prices
matter matters for a company like Apple
a lot that ships those. Ads, obviously,
it's Google and Meta. So, I think for
each one of these and for close rates,
you've got that affects software the
most, which would impact potentially
Microsoft. So, for each of these names,
it's a it's a different risk profile.
And they, you know, the Magnificent
Seven are up 20% on average since March
30th. The S&P is up 13% as we talked
about. The SOX is up 47%.
And so, I think for right now, I'm
looking for some kind of minor
correction. And the the the way I
phrased it is this is a lot like 1997 or
'98 where you have the macro scare off
the Thai currency crisis.
S&P went down 11%. Then you had the
scare in '98 off the Russian bond
default. S&P went down 19%. But it
finished both of those years up 31 and
27. Once you got through that, I don't
view Iran much differently from a
longer-term basis. Dan, interesting
framing. I appreciate your time. So, Dan
Niles of of Niles Investment Management.
A lot to unpack there. There are obvious
cyclical [snorts] headwinds supporting
this market right now. And Dan was
talking about what's going to happen
with the generative AI and how
supportive that would be of some of the
things that are supporting this rally in
chip stocks. It's the cyclical
components of somebody's stories that I
think we have to focus on going into the
Wednesday reporting season for these
guys. And that's the ad sales at
Alphabet, the ad sales at Meta. Just how
well has that held up in the face of
this uncertainty worldwide?
>> Yeah, as Christian Bitterly was saying
earlier of City, essentially people can
only focus on one thing at a time and
they're focused on the AI promise. Over
the longer term, there will be some sort
of blowback and and repercussions from
what we're seeing in the real world that
we could see reflected potentially
penalized.
>> Exactly. Or higher oil prices may be
starting [music] to bite. Supply chain
risk. A lot of questions even for the
tech names. Coming up tomorrow, I'm
looking forward to catching up with Jon
Stein of Oppenheimer, the General
[music] Motors CFO Paul Jacobson, Seth
Carpenter of Morgan Stanley, plus
Lindsay Pieksa of [music] Stifel from
New York City this morning. Good
morning. Thank you for starting your
week with Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.
>> [music]